file_705.txt|Asset management Asset management Network Rail's obligations to provide asset management processes, policies and information are set out in licence condition 1, in particular conditions 1.19 to 1.22. 1.19 In complying with the general duty in condition 1.2, the licence holder shall; develop the policies and criteria it will apply in respect of the maintenance, renewal, replacement, improvement, enhancement and development of the relevant assets, which shall demonstrate how the licence holder will comply with the general duty in condition 1.2; apply those policies and criteria; and make appropriate information about those policies and criteria readily accessible to persons providing services relating to railways and funders, including potential providers and potential funders. 1.20 The licence holder shall maintain appropriate, accurate and readily accessible information about the relevant assets, including their condition, capability and capacity 1.21 ORR may permit the licence holder to exclude from the definition of 'relevant assets' assets of such description or classes as shall be provided to and approved by ORR. 1.22 The licence holder shall from time to time and when so directed by the ORR review and, if necessary, revise the policies and criteria provided for in condition 1.19 to ensure that they remain sufficient to comply with the general duty in condition 1.2. These clauses provide ORR with the ability to enforce a wide range of asset management and asset information compliance issues with Network Rail. Current issues The current issues related to Network Rail's asset management practices are reported quarterly in our Network Rail Monitor within the asset management section. The key areas that we monitor and report on include asset planning, delivery and performance. Asset management compliance An asset management assessment framework forms the basis of the on-going development and improvement reviews carried out by the ORR to ensure that Network Rail complies with licence condition 1, asset management. In summary, the framework considers Network Rail's asset management performance, capability and maturity in the following 6 areas: Strategy & planning 
file_64.txt|You are responsible for monitoring contributions to the pension scheme. You need to take steps to recover missed or late payments quickly and efficiently. You must report any materially significant payment failures to the regulator in good time. Managers of personal pension schemes Managers of personal pension schemes can be: The personal pension scheme operator or provider, namely the person responsible to members for managing and administering the assets and income of, and the benefits payable under the scheme in accordance with pensions and tax legislation, the scheme’s provisions and the regulatory system. Typically, but not always, this is the appointed scheme administrator. Trustees operating a scheme jointly with the scheme administrator due to their responsibilities under the scheme trust deed for administering and managing the assets. Other parties liable as scheme administrator, and the persons responsible for the management of the scheme (other than a scheme established under trust). Back to top Codes and guidance We’ve updated our codes of practice on reporting late payment of contributions to defined contribution (DC) occupational and personal pension schemes and accompanying guidance. The codes and the accompanying guidance aim to improve transparency and ensure that everyone involved in the flow of contributions has a clear understanding of their responsibilities. Back to top Understand your obligations It’s important that you understand your obligation to effectively monitor the pension scheme. In particular you need to know when to report a payment failure to us, what constitutes a ‘materially significant payment failure’, and when and how to report a payment failure. You need to ensure that you: take responsibility for monitoring contributions take steps to recover and remedy missed or late payments quickly and efficiently ensure you report any materially significant payment failures to the regulator in good time. You will also have to inform your members if such a payment failure occurs. This is a legal duty. What you must report Examples of material payment failures that you need to report to us: Where managers have reasonable cause to believe that the employer is not willing to pay the outstanding contributions. Where the managers’ reminder and recovery process has been exhausted without response from the employer or without them having obtained the outstanding payment they may assume this indicates an employer’s unwillingness to pay. Where there is a payment failure involving possible dishonesty or a misuse of assets or contributions. For example, managers may have concerns that the employer is retaining and using contributions to assist cash flow difficulties or where managers have become aware that the employer has transferred contributions elsewhere other than to the scheme. Where there is a failure to pay contributions which carries a criminal penalty. For example, information available to the managers may indicate that the employer is knowingly concerned in the fraudulent evasion of the obligation to pay employee contributions. Where the managers become aware that the employer does not have adequate procedures or systems in place to ensure the correct and timely payment of contributions due and the employer appears not to be taking adequate steps to remedy the situation, for example where there are repetitive and regular payment failures. In any event where contributions have been outstanding for 90 days from the due date. What you don't need to report Examples of what you shouldn’t normally report to us: Where managers have entered into a payment arrangement with the employer for the recovery of the outstanding contributions and the employer is paying in accordance with that arrangement. Where a claim has been submitted to the Redundancy Payments Office National Insurance Fund or the Northern Ireland Redundancy Payments Service. Where there are infrequent one-off payment failures or administrative errors resulting from, for example employees leaving the scheme or employment, new employees joining, or changes in salary not being notified promptly to the managers, and those occasional failures or errors have been corrected within 90 days of the due date. Where payments are made in excess of the contributions due under the direct payment arrangements. Where contributions are paid late but in full and within 90 days of the due date. Back to top How to report material payment failures This section provides you with information on how to use our maintaining contributions online service to report individual or multiple material payment failures from employers to your DC scheme. Using this online service will help you ensure that you're able to report your material payment failures in line with our published codes of practice and guidance . There are two different ways to report, depending on your role and the nature of the report that you need to make. You can either submit a single report or a bulk report. Single report: we recommend using this option when you have a small number of material payment failures to report. Bulk report: we recommend using this option when you have a large number of material payment failures to report to save you time on entering data. You can download a copy of our standardised data template once you're logged in to the service. Our template below contains information on the data you must provide, along with some additional guidance. For more information on how to use the service please see our quick guide to reporting material payment failures below. If you have any queries please see our reporting material payment failures questions and answers . You can send any queries not answered here to mcreportingsupport@tpr.gov.uk . Online service Report individual or multiple payment failures from employers to your DC scheme. You need to login or register to use this service. Guide (PDF) Information for trustees, managers and administrators on material payment failures. Resource 
file_38.txt|You need to review your scheme either formally or informally. Think about if the scheme is still relevant to you and your staff. We have developed quality features to assess the quality of a pension scheme. Review a DC scheme The best way to review the quality of an existing defined contribution (DC) pension scheme is to speak to the trustees or scheme provider. You should ask them whether it includes our DC quality features. We have developed the DC quality features as a way for trustees and providers to assess whether their scheme is likely to deliver good retirement outcomes for members. If you need to select a new scheme and are interested in carrying out a more detailed assessment of quality of schemes offered by providers, see below for our employer’s guide to selecting a good quality pension scheme for automatic enrolment. You can find pension scheme providers in a number of ways, including by using an adviser. You should ask providers some key questions to help you check their scheme meets the automatic enrolment rules and is good quality. For more information go to finding a provider . While it’s not a legal requirement, you may want to consider putting in place some monitoring of the scheme to ensure it’s being run well. See our guide below on monitoring your pension scheme. 
file_420.txt|
file_632.txt|Train protection Train protection Train protection is equipment fitted to trains and the track that can reduce risks from signals passed at danger (SPADs) and over-speeding. Train Protection Warning System (TPWS) is the most widely used train protection system in Britain although on some routes Automatic Train Protection (ATP) is used. London Underground has incorporated a train protection system for many years, originally in the form of mechanical train stops but increasingly these are being replaced by electronic forms of ATP equipment. The European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) will replace TPWS and ATP in the future. Background Over the years there have been a number of serious incidents following SPADs, including collisions at Southall and Ladbroke Grove where lives were lost. In 1999 the Railway Safety Regulations (RSR 99) introduced a requirement to introduce a train protection system. TPWS was installed across the network by the end of 2002 and is successfully reducing SPAD risk as there have been a number of recorded incidents where TPWS has intervened to avoid a potential collision.  In some places TPWS+ (which is effective at higher operating speeds than TPWS) has been installed. On certain routes ATP is used and this system continuously monitors train speed to ensure that the train is at the right speed for that railway. TPWS is seen as a stop-gap ahead of the introduction of European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS), and was not intended to be a long-term system solution to reduce signals passed at danger (SPADs) and over-speeding risks. Train protection systems on other rail systems The installation of train protection systems should be considered for all forms of rail transport systems. Metro systems such as the London Underground require robust systems that can minimise the consequence of a signal, or end of movement authority, being passed in error. Other rail systems such as trams and heritage railways may be able to demonstrate that such technology is not required. The justification is likely to be based on the number and speed of vehicles or the ability to stop within line of sight of obstructions. Train protection systems and the European Rail Traffic Management System In line with European directives, the national network is now committed to a migration plan that will replace TPWS with ERTMS which will provide a higher level of train protection whilst helping the railway towards a more cost efficient signalling system. However the programme for rolling out ERTMS across the network will take some time and TPWS is going to remain in operation for a considerable period beyond its original design life (possibly beyond 2046). In recognising this, the industry has developed a long-term strategy to ensure its continuing reliability and availability of parts etc. The mainline industry, facilitated by RSSB, formed a strategy group to look at how TPWS can be maintained on the network until the implementation of ERTMS. As TPWS involves both Network Rail and train operator equipment, it is vital that relevant duty holders collaborate to ensure that TPWS is managed appropriately to ensure that it is safe now and stays safe in the future. In November 2009, RSSB's Vehicle/Train Control & Communications System Interface Committee (V/TC&C SIC) published a strategy for TPWS to achieve the aim of continued safe operation of TPWS. Safety performance and monitoring We publish quarterly reports on the numbers of SPADs which includes a summary of the key trends: Train Protection and Warning System (TPWS) European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) We expect that train operators will identify the risk to their operations from TPWS in-service failures and from 'reset and continue' (this may occur when the TPWS deploys the brake, brings the train to a halt, and the driver simply resets the system and continues) and take appropriate actions to mitigate them. New versions of the TPWS equipment include features that minimise the likelihood of these events and we believe that train operators should take suitable opportunities (such as refurbishment programmes) to upgrade their TPWS equipment where appropriate. Last updated - 29 July 2014 
file_151.txt|Social media policies Terms and conditions The Pensions Regulator (the regulator), is the manager of the website, and may make changes to the content of the website at any time without notice. By accessing the regulator’s online services you agree to be bound by our terms and conditions, which apply to the services we provide and our websites. Linking policy Our policy on linking to and from this website. Linking to this site We welcome and encourage other websites to link to the information that is hosted on these pages, and you don’t have to ask permission to link to our website. However, you should not suggest that your website is or contents are associated with, or endorsed by, The Pensions Regulator. Linking from this site We link to other Government departments and representative bodies but not individual companies. Where our website contains links to other websites and resources provided by third parties, these links are provided for your information only. We make no warranty of any kind with respect to those websites or content thereof or the completeness or accuracy of those websites. Visitors should take specific advice from a qualified professional, where necessary. Descriptions of, or references or links to other websites within our website are not, and do not imply, an endorsement of those websites or their contents. We have no control over the contents of those sites or resources, and accept no responsibility for them or for any loss, disruption or damage that may arise from your use of them. Hardware and software compatibility We do not guarantee that this website will be compatible with all or any hardware and software which you may use or that this website will be available all the time or at any specific time. Virus protection We make every effort to check and test material at all stages of production. It is always wise for you to run an anti-virus program on all material downloaded from the internet. Registering for our online services To register for our online services you must provide us with a working email address and a password. You agree to keep your password secret and safe. However, if you are using an email address that can be accessed by multiple users, those who have access to that email address and password are jointly responsible for keeping the sign up details secure. The services are: Exchange: a service which allows you to view information online (scheme information and Levy invoices), to send information electronically (scheme returns and corrections to scheme information), to tell us about any material payment failures for defined contribution schemes (maintaining contributions) and to receive information electronically from the regulator (issuance of Levy invoices to designated contacts and the scheme return notice). The Trustee toolkit: a service providing online learning for trustees and others to increase their knowledge and understanding of trustee responsibility. News-by-email: a subscription service allowing you to keep up-to-date with the regulator’s developments. Automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration): a service allowing employers to complete the required declaration with the regulator when they have automatically enrolled certain workers into a pension scheme. Exchange registration When you sign up for Exchange you agree to provide your name, postal address, email address and telephone number. You also agree to submit a number of security questions with answers. You may change any of your user sign up details. You may also request to be removed as a user. To login, you will use the email address and password you supplied to verify your identity and to authenticate the scheme information you send. Once you have signed up, you will be provided with a key, which will allow you to access your scheme information via the Exchange system. You agree to keep your key safe and secret. If you give your key to another you are authorising that person to access and use the services on your behalf. The Trustee toolkit registration When you sign up for the Trustee toolkit, you will be asked to provide information which includes your name, the type of trustee you are (if you are a trustee), the type of scheme of which you are a trustee and an email address. This information allows us to provide you with a development record and will inform you of any future releases of the e-learning programme and encourage you to complete the learning programme. Automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) When you sign up for automatic enrolment declaration you will be asked to provide information which includes your name, contact details, your code as provided to you by the regulator and details relating to your company. For more information about what you'll need to provide go to automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration ). News-by-email registration To receive news-by-email you are asked to provide information which includes your name, email address and your role (where linked to the pension industry). Variation to terms and conditions By accepting these terms and conditions you agree that we may: Use the services for any part of our dealings with you in relation to any of the services you are signed up for. Change, withdraw or add to the services and the website (or their features) or change the way in which you may access the services, all without notice. Revise these terms and conditions from time to time as we develop the service. You will be notified of any changes via the email address provided on sign up or via a notification on our website. The changes will apply to the use of our website and services after we have given notice. If you do not wish to accept the new terms and conditions you should not continue to use the services. If you continue to use the services after the date on which the change comes into effect, your use of the services indicates your agreement to be bound by the new terms and conditions. You can view our terms and conditions at any time by selecting the 'terms and conditions' link on our website. Contact between you and the regulator We will normally use your email address to communicate with you. Alternatively we may contact you using your postal address and telephone number. Please note that sending information by email is not secure and is done so at your own risk. Back to top Data Protection Act 1998 and privacy The Pensions Regulator is a data controller under the Data Protection Act 1998. We will hold and process your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in accordance with this Act. Where personal data of third parties is provided by you, we assume that you have obtained the required authority to supply this information unless you tell us otherwise. We will hold and process your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in accordance with this Act. We may use your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in connection with any of our statutory functions, including but not limited to, the purpose of internal record keeping, to provide any of our services for which you have registered and to contact you. We will not transfer, disclose, sell, distribute or lease the information that you have provided to third parties unless we have your permission except where permitted to do so for the purpose of exercising our regulatory functions or where we are permitted or required by law to assist other bodies to exercise their statutory functions. Further information on how your information is used, kept secure and your access rights please see our privacy notice . EIOPA public register The Pensions Regulator is required under EU law to provide the following information to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) which will then be published on their register: the name, address, cross-border status, and host country or countries of the pension schemes in the regulator’s register. The EIOPA public register of European occupational pension schemes is updated annually and available to view on the EIOPA website . The Trustee Toolkit The Trustee toolkit is hosted on our behalf by a third party. The third party has been carefully selected by the regulator, and is contractually bound to handle your information in the same manner as the regulator. Use of cookies We use 'cookies' which are pieces of data created and stored on your hard drive when you use our online services. Find out more about how we use cookies . Back to top Copyright and intellectual property The services and website and all the materials contained in it are protected by intellectual property rights, including copyright, and either belong to the regulator or are licensed to it to use. Materials include, but are not limited to, the design, layout, look, appearance, graphics and documents on the website, as well as other content. We have made the services and website available to you for your own personal non-commercial use. We may modify, withdraw or deny access to this website at any time. Any use of materials on this website including but not limited to reproduction for any purpose and modification, distribution or republication should acknowledge the regulator as the source and will be subject to intellectual property rights that attach to such materials. The Trustee toolkit – the information provided in modules, tutorials and other learning resources on this website are provided solely as an educational tool. Liability Whilst every effort is made by the regulator (and its authorised subcontractors) to keep secure information submitted to you, you accept the risk that data transmitted electronically via this website or otherwise may be intercepted before reaching its intended destination or accessed by unauthorised third parties and may be exploited unlawfully by such parties. We are not liable for any harm, loss or damage, howsoever caused, occasioned to you from using these services. 
file_244.txt|This section provides educational programmes about medicines and medical devices. Continuing professional development Some of our education modules have been accredited for continuing professional development (CPD) points. The Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine (external link) of the Royal Colleges of Physicians of the United Kingdom has approved the MHRA learning modules on pharmacovigilance, on selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), on opioids and on antipsychotics for CPD credits. The module on anaesthetics machines has been accredited by the Royal College of Anaesthetists (external link). Devices education modules We have produced a series of educational packages covering medical device topics that have been reported as areas of concern or as problems through our Adverse Incident Centre. Most of the packages come with a quiz to assess knowledge gained and are certified and a number are recognised by Royal Colleges. Some packages contain video of operations and may not be for the squeamish. These training aids are free to use and require no passwords. They include the following modules: 
file_807.txt|Model licences and Statements of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRPs) The current standard versions of licences in use. European licences © Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_784.txt|Policies Policies This page contains our current policies relating to track access and related issues. This is maintained as the current position and previous policies are available on the National Archives website. The Rail Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 The Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 open up access at previously exempt facilities under The Railways Act 1993 as amended (the Act), such as those at ports and terminals and other freight depots and networks. The Regulations allow for, amongst other things, a right of appeal to ORR for any applicant that thinks it has been wrongly denied access to a facility or service or that the terms for obtaining access are unreasonable or discriminatory. Appeals can also be brought against an infrastructure manager's charging system, or charging matters associated with access to unregulated facilities or services. For further information on our approach to dealing with appeals under the Regulations, please refer to our guidance on appeals under the Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management Regulations 2005) pdf icon PDF, 197 Kb . Recent appeals under the Regulations 
file_339.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_426.txt|
file_295.txt|How can I search for reports / data? Who is the Office of Rail Regulation? Top The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) is the independent safety and economic regulator for Britain's railways. ORR’s website has more information on it’s functions and duties. What data does the National Rail Trends (NRT) Portal hold? Top The NRT Portal holds statistics on rail performance, rail usage, safety, network capability, assets, and finance. How often is the data updated? Top The data on the NRT Portal always shows the most up-to-date information available. ORR’s publication timetable provides the release dates for National Rail Trends publications . What are the benefits of registering for the portal? Top Registering for the NRT Portal is optional and free. By registering you will benefit from: Bespoke reports.Take full advantage of the functionality in the advanced query facility. Regular users will benefit from being able to save their own queries for later re-use. MyAccount.Manage your own account - change your password, manage your email alerts, manage and retrieve your own reports. Newsletter. Keep up-to-date with the latest data releases and site developments. Register now to create your own reports. How can I create my own reports? Top Registered users can create their own statistical reports. Once you are registered, you can use ORR’s report wizard to browse for an indicator (statistical measures), specify your own date range and choose the operators or location you would like to see. Where can I find information about the methodology and source of the data? Top To view all explanatory information, methodology, caveats and source information, click the ‘Notes and source’ link above all reports. How can I export the data to Microsoft Excel? Top All charts and tables can be exported to Microsoft Excel. This can be done by clicking the Microsoft Excel icon that appears underneath all outputs. How can I save reports for use later? Top Registered users can save all charts and tables in their MyReports area. This can be done by clicking the save icon (floppy disk) that appears underneath all outputs. To retrieve saved reports, log into the NRT Portal and click on the MyReports link at the top of the homepage. Scroll down the page until you find the appropriate saved report, and click view. How can I unsubscribe from the Office of Rail Regulation’s newsletter? Top ORR send all registered users a newsletter. If you would prefer not to receive this newsletter log into the NRT Portal and click on the MyAccount link at the top of the homepage. Click the edit tab, followed by the personal information tab. Tick the unsubscribe box and click save. What do I do if I forget my password? Top If you forget your password, you can send ORR your email address via the forgotten password page . Once you have submitted your email address, you will be sent a new password. If you can no longer receive emails at the address you registered with, please email ORR with your name, organisation, previous and new email address . We will respond to you within one working day (in practice, we aim to reply within three working hours). Where do I find a glossary of terms and acronyms? Top ORR’s glossary of rail-specific terms is a useful resource for technical terms and acronyms. What will the Office of Rail Regulation do with my personal details if I register? Top The ORR will not pass your details onto any other organisation. Your personal details will be used by ORR to send newsletters and track usage (with Google Analytics). You can unsubscribe from ORR’s newsletter at any time. How can I search for reports / data? Top You can search for reports or data by using keywords. For example, if you want to search for data about ‘National Rail Enquiry Services’, you can type either ‘enquiry’ or ‘enq’ into the search toolbar, and you will see a list of all reports / indicators matching your search term. 
file_762.txt|New disputed contracts (Section 17) New disputed contracts (Section 17) This page contains all ORR decisions made in the last six months relating to contested applications for new Track Access Contracts. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . Date 
file_88.txt|Independent trustee register Governance and administration The areas of governance and administration that you need to focus on to ensure that your defined benefit pension scheme is well run. Contributions As part of the valuation process for your defined benefit pension scheme, you need to work with the employer to set their contribution rate. You must prepare and maintain a schedule of contributions and check that the employer makes the correct payments. 
file_925.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_84.txt|Independent trustee register Detailed guidance for trustees To carry out your role as a trustee effectively, you need to be aware of pensions legislation, trust law and good practice. The Pensions Regulator produces different types of detailed guidance that can help you understand legal requirements and follow good practice. On this page Key points Use our Trustee toolkit (or equivalent) to gain the required trustee knowledge and understanding. Codes of practice set out practical guidance and standards of conduct and practice that you must meet under pensions legislation. Code-related guidance provides further detail on areas covered by codes of practice. Regulatory guidance helps you understand what pensions legislation requires and what is good practice in the governance and administration of pension schemes. Trustee toolkit The Trustee toolkit is a key source of knowledge and understanding for trustees. It’s a free online training course that addresses the knowledge and understanding required by trustees. Within six months of becoming a trustee you must either complete the Trustee toolkit or be able to demonstrate how else you have gained the required knowledge and understanding, such as having a Pensions Management Institute qualification or equivalent knowledge. Directors of corporate trustees should also ensure they meet the trustee knowledge and understanding requirements. You can also use the Trustee toolkit for: refresher training on areas of scheme governance and administration that you’re less familiar with professional development keeping up to date with changes to legal requirements and good practice. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit We provide a free online learning programme called the Trustee toolkit which you should complete, unless you arrange the equivalent learning. You must login or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. Back to top Codes of practice Codes of practice provide practical guidelines on the requirements of pensions legislation. They set out standards of conduct and practice that you must meet. You don’t have to follow a code of practice in every circumstance. However, you must ensure that any alternative approach meets the requirements of the legislation underpinning the code of practice. If we issue an improvement notice we may direct you to take, or refrain from taking, steps based on the provisions of a code of practice. Some codes apply to all schemes, eg trustee knowledge and understanding , some apply to defined contribution (DC) schemes, eg the DC code , and some apply to defined benefit (DB) schemes, eg funding defined benefits . Back to top Code-related guidance Some codes of practice need further explanation on areas that they cover. This detail is contained within code-related guidance . For example, the code-related guidance on complying with the duty to report breaches of the law contains examples of when you do and don’t need to report breaches to us. Back to top Regulatory guidance Regulatory guidance is good practice guidance that provides information, education and assistance. It is intended to help you understand what pensions legislation requires and what is good practice in the governance and administration of pension schemes. Some regulatory guidance applies to all schemes, eg record-keeping , some applies to DC schemes, eg the DC regulatory guidance , and some applies to DB schemes, eg clearance . 
file_618.txt|Occupational cancers Occupational cancers Occupational cancer leads to a significant number of deaths in the UK each year and this page provides advice and guidance on how the risks can be controlled and exposure to carcinogens minimised. Recent research for HSE has estimated there are around 13,500 new cases of cancer caused by work every year with over 8,000 deaths, over half of which are due to past exposures to asbestos. The outputs from this research led by Dr Lesley Rushton from Imperial College London will help HSE to develop and prioritise practical measures to help reduce the occupational cancer burden in the future. HSE reports an estimated 2,500 deaths per year due to asbestos, and 500 per year due to silica, for the construction industry alone. Although management of health risks in the rail industry continues to improve, rail employers need to remain vigilant and adopt an active precautionary policy for tasks involving exposure to known or suspect carcinogens. Occupational cancers can be caused by prolonged exposure over many years to carcinogens in the workplace, not only to chemical substances including dust and fumes, but also from exposures to the sun and from shift work for example. In the rail industry there are potential risks from exposures to asbestos in premises and rolling stock, respirable crystalline silica in ballast dust and from cutting or grinding concrete, and diesel engine exhaust emissions. These exposures can and should be minimised if appropriate management and precautionary measures are put in place by rail companies. There are stringent legal requirements under The COSHH Regulations 2002 (as amended) and Approved Code of Practice on the control of known or suspect carcinogens. HSE's website provides further information on the links between chemical carcinogens, solar radiation and shift work, and types of cancer as well as guidance for employers and employees on the practical control measures needed. HSE's occupational disease web community , which focuses on promoting initiatives to reduce occupational cancer incidence, should be a useful source of advice for the rail employer. The Trade Union Congress produced guidance on occupational cancers in 2013 for employees. We will continue raising awareness about the dangers of exposure to harmful materials at work, and the practical control measures which must be implemented, to help drive up standards of rail worker protection. Rail employers should monitor and check that their risk management of potential exposure remains effective. We provide advice on the requirements for companies to report certain new or worsening cases of occupational cancers under Regulation 9 of the Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 (RIDDOR). We have published advice in railway guidance documents on diesel engine exhaust emissions pdf icon PDF, 107 Kb . Further advice on control of silica in ballast dust can be found in the Track Safety Alliance video 'Track Safety Matters Episode 2 - The Ballast Dust Story and from Network Rail's Ballast Dust Working Group . Our web page on asbestos provides information on where asbestos is likely to be found on the railway but where the contents of a material is unknown it should be sampled to test for asbestos or assumed that it is and managed appropriately. We are actively supporting a campaign which is being run by IOSH ' No Time to Lose ' to raise awareness of carcinogenic exposure issues and help businesses take action. Prevention really is better than cure and health needs to be managed like safety. Last updated - 7 November 2014 
file_667.txt|Launch of periodic review 2013 (PR13) stakeholder events PR13 events - Office of Rail Regulation In July 2011 we hosted four stakeholder events around Great Britain. These events enabled interested parties to discuss PR13 within the context of industry reform and some of the key technical issues which were set out in the 25 May 2011 PR13 initial consultation document. Stakeholder participation was critical to making these events a success. Summaries of discussions and presentations are set out below. In addition, a summary of Network Rail's contributions across the events is also available. Manchester – 21 July 2011 
file_453.txt|Railway regulatory law Railway regulatory law This page provides summaries of the main pieces of primary and secondary legislation which are relevant to ORR's regulatory functions. Acts are published on http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ . Acts may have been amended since they were passed. Railways Act 1993 (RA93) This Act contains most of our functions including, but not limited to: licensing; review of access charges; and enforcement. It also contains in section 4 our statutory duties which we must take into account in exercising our functions. Railways Act 2005 The Act largely amends the Railways Act 1993. The Act made a number of changes to our regulatory framework, including: a change to the statutory framework for periodic reviews of access charges; transferring responsibility for rail-specific health and safety regulation from the Health and Safety Executive to us; creation of additional functions for us, including a role in dealing with closures; transferring responsibility for monitoring and enforcing the licence conditions concerning consumer protection from the Strategic Rail Authority; and providing advice and assistance to the Secretary of State for Transport, Scottish Ministers and the National Assembly of Wales. Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 (HSWA) This is the fundamental piece of health and safety legislation. It places general duties on employers, people in control of premises, manufacturers and employees. Health and safety regulations made under this Act contain more detailed provisions. The Act provides the framework for the regulation of industrial health and safety in the UK which is relevant to us as the health and safety regulator for the rail industry. The Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS) These regulations implement EU safety requirements for railway operators and infrastructure managers. ROGS states, in outline, that those with responsibility for safety must maintain a safety management system and hold a safety certificate/authorisation issued by us, before being allowed to operate. The regulations also make provision for the safe design of new vehicles and infrastructure, impose controls on safety critical work and, following amendments in 2011, make provision for entities in charge of maintenance of railway vehicles. More can be found in our ROGS section. The Level Crossings Act 1983 This Act provides for level crossing orders to be made which contain detailed provisions for the protection of level crossing users. The Railways (Interoperability) Regulations 2011 We are the enforcing authority for these regulations which implement European Directives which have the purpose of establishing common operational standards and practices across European railways. The Competition Act 1998 This legislation bans certain kinds of commercial behaviour because of the harm they cause to consumers and competition generally. We enforce the Act where this type of behaviour involves services relating to the railways. More information can be found in our competition section . The Enterprise Act 2002 This contains provisions relating to competition and consumer protection law. It provides us with the power to refer rail-related markets that are not working well for consumers to the Competition Commission. The Act also gives us the responsibility for dealing with 'super-complaints' made by consumer bodies about problems in rail-related markets. See the Consumer protection page for more information. The Health and Safety (Enforcing Authority for Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems) Regulations 2006 (EARR 2006) These regulations make us the enforcing authority for railway aspects of the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act. This gives us the power to serve enforcement notices, and prosecute for breaches in health and safety law affecting the railways. Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 These regulations implement European Directives which open up access to previously exempt facilities such as ports and terminals and other freight depots and networks. They give train operators seeking access to the network the right to make an appeal to us should they feel aggrieved about access or charging in relation to such facilities. Railway (Licensing of Railway Undertakings) Regulations 2005 The regulations give us the authority to issue European licences and Statements of National Provisions (SNRPs). European licences are valid across Europe - SNRPs are only relevant to the UK. More information can be found in our licensing section. The Railway Safety Levy Regulations 2006 These regulations give us the authority to raise a levy from all railway service providers to fund railway safety functions. Railway and Transport Safety Act 2003 (RATS) The Act that, amongst other things, abolished the Rail Regulator and created the Office of Rail Regulation. Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations 1995 (RIDDOR) These regulations require dutyholders to notify us of significant health and safety incidents on the railways. Transport Act 2000 This Act has been largely superseded by the Railways Act 2005. It amended the Railways Act 1993 enabling us in certain circumstances to require the operators or owners of railway facilities to provide new or improved facilities. Localism Act 2011 The Localism Act 2011 requires local planning authorities, ORR and other public bodies to cooperate in planning processes, by engaging "constructively, actively and on an ongoing basis" to develop strategic policies. In particular, the duty: relates to sustainable development or use of land that would have a significant impact on at least two local planning areas or on a planning matter that falls within the remit of a county council; requires that councils set out planning policies to address such issues; and requires councils to consider joint approaches to plan making. 
file_956.txt|ONR backing for female leadership report 5 February, 2015 Nick Baldwin, ONR’s Chair and Jane Bowie, Superintending Inspector, recently attended the launch of POWERful Women ’s report Igniting Change: Building the pipeline of female leaders in energy . The report, commissioned by POWERful Women and written by PwC , calls for a dramatic rise in the number of women entering, staying in and reaching the highest levels of the energy industry. Jane Bowie is featured in the report, talking about her career in the nuclear industry and discussing how to attract more women to leadership positions in the industry. Jane is ONR’s representative for both POWERful Women and Women in Nuclear. ONR is committed to addressing the challenges set by the report and we will be developing a strategy to ensure we achieve them. 
file_427.txt|
file_458.txt|Health and safety strategy Health and safety strategy ORR's health and safety strategy document sets out our approach to regulating the health and safety risks created and managed by businesses in the rail industry. We look strategically at how we regulate health and safety on Britain's railways to drive continuous improvement. We do this to deliver a safe railway where the health and safety management is cost effective and performance is amongst the best in the world. Our regulatory approach explains what we do and why. We further explain our approach in our health and safety strategy document which sets out the evidence for our approach to regulating the health and safety risks created and managed by businesses in the rail industry. The strategy forms part of our overall corporate strategy , in which our health and safety aim is: for all parts of the railways to have excellent health and safety culture and risk control processes by 2014. We believe that achieving this goal will enable the industry to come much closer than it currently is to achieving zero employee and industry-caused passenger fatalities and declining levels of risk. More consistent adoption of best practice in occupational health will also contribute to increased efficiency. We expect the rail industry to continuously examine its behaviour and management systems to identify and implement reasonably practicable improvements. We believe that good health and safety performance contributes to good business performance. ORR's strategy for regulation of health and safety risks To assist the industry we published our strategy document in September 2012. It is comprised of the following chapters which we will update on a rolling programme of review and revision to reflect changes in our perception of risk across the industry based on incident data and our findings from inspections, investigations and audits. Version 2 - published October 2014 Overview: 
file_216.txt|As a registered reporter, your online ‘workspace’ has a searchable library of all your reports. You can: save draft reports submit a confirmation report once your local investigation has been completed. SABRE does not replace your local reporting arrangements. Enquiries and help Contact us by email sabre@mhra.gsi.gov.uk or by telephone on 020 3080 7336. You should always report SAEs and SARs via SABRE. If SABRE is temporarily unavailable and the report is urgent, contact us on telephone 020 3080 7080 for guidance on how to report. Guidance ' User guide for mandatory haemovigilance reporting in the UK (634Kb)' is our guidance on reporting SAEs and SARs. This incorporates current advice from the European Commission working group on a common approach to the definition of reportable incidents as set out in the relevant EU directives and UK regulations. SHOT (Serious Hazards Of Transfusion) Reporting to SHOT (external link) is done through a SABRE report. A number of blood safety initiatives depend on continuity of SHOT data for monitoring and evaluation and it is therefore vital that hospitals keep reporting to SHOT. The CMO for England recommends that all hospitals make SHOT reports. Reporting to SHOT remains voluntary, but is required for compliance with HSC/2002/009 'Better Blood Transfusion' and is a standard for the clinical negligence scheme for trusts in England. Enquiries for SHOT 
file_999.txt|Help Help Terms and conditions This page (taken with the documents and pages it refers to) tells you the terms of use which you agree to when you use GOV.UK. GOV.UK is managed by the Government Digital Service , which is part of the Cabinet Office (referred to as ‘we’ below). This page was last updated on 12 April 2013. Using GOV.UK GOV.UK is maintained for your personal use. You agree to use this site only for lawful purposes, and in a manner that does not infringe the rights of, or restrict or inhibit the use and enjoyment of, this site by any third party. We aim to update our site regularly, and may change the content at any time. By using this site, you indicate that you accept these terms of use and that you agree to abide by them. If you do not agree to these terms of use, please refrain from using our site. Online government services or transactions When using GOV.UK you may access an online government service or transaction that is delivered by another government department or agency. Each of these services will have its own terms and conditions or end user licences that apply only to that service. Users of any service should make sure they have read the relevant terms and conditions before completing that transaction. Linking to and from GOV.UK We welcome and encourage other websites to link to the information that is hosted on these pages, and you don’t have to ask permission to link to GOV.UK. However, we don’t give you permission to suggest that your website is associated with, or endorsed by, GOV.UK. Where our site contains links to other sites and resources provided by third parties, these links are provided for your information only. We have no control over the contents of those sites or resources, and accept no responsibility for them or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them. Using GOV.UK content GOV.UK is published under the Open Government Licence , and you can reproduce information from the site as long as you obey the terms of that licence. The material featured on this website is subject to Crown copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. Read the Crown copyright page for more information. In addition, we make much of our information available through feeds to third parties for use on websites or other applications. Please be aware, however, that these are not our products. These applications may use versions of our information and guidance that has been edited or cached. The most up-to-date version of our information will always be that available on the GOV.UK website. We don’t provide any guarantees conditions or warranties as to the accuracy of any such third party products and do not accept liability for loss or damage incurred by users of such third party products under any circumstances. Disclaimer While we make every effort to keep GOV.UK up to date, we don’t provide any guarantees, conditions or warranties as to the accuracy of the information on the site. We don’t accept liability for loss or damage incurred by users of the website, whether direct, indirect or consequential, whether caused by tort, breach of contract or otherwise, in connection with our site, its use, the inability to use, or results of the use of our site, any websites linked to it and any materials posted on it. This includes loss of: income or revenue 
file_160.txt|Fields that you must complete are marked with this symbol: Email Address 
file_197.txt|Is this a duplicate of an ongoing or finalised procedure?* Yes No Please indicate the procedure number of the original dossier If you plan to submit any parallel duplicate applications for any of the above mentioned products please indicate For applications under Article 10.1, 10.3, and 10.4 Details of the Reference Medicinal Product which must have been authorised for more than 8/10 years in the EEA Product name, strength and pharmaceutical form Marketing Authorisation Holder Is the Reference Medicinal Product is authorised in the UK? Yes Don't know Other details By providing the following details, you declare that no other Member State has agreed to act as Reference Member State for a Decentralised Procedure for the above mentioned product Applicant's preferred submission date MM/YYYY Please indicate if you have a PL number already allocated for this submission.* Please note this will be provided if not Yes 
file_326.txt|Register Contact us If you have any queries, comments or concerns, please contact ORR’s data portal team . We aim to respond within one working day. Latest reports 
file_875.txt|Current licence consultations This page details proposals to grant licences or licence exemptions on which we are consulting. For licences or licence exemptions in force, please contact the licensing and access team or see our public register . Proposal to grant 
file_801.txt|Review of existing DPPPs Review of existing DPPPs Operators with an existing DPPP should continue to keep it under review, evaluating its own performance in line with the 2009 guidance pdf icon PDF, 672 Kb . Where, as a result, the operator proposes a 'material change' to its existing DPPP it should advise us and submit: marked-up versions, reflecting any revisions to both the passenger document and policy document; an explanation of the reasons for any changes; and a statement of whether the operator considers any part of these changes to be 'material'. Criteria and process for approval Criteria The existing 2009 guidance pdf icon PDF, 672 Kb for DPPP forms the basis of ORR's review and approval of operators DPPP. Operators should satisfy themselves that they meet the standards and criteria in this guidance. For the policy document, our review will in particular assess the operator's approach to: delivering assistance, promoting awareness of the assistance available and facilitating travel by those with disabilities (including those with less visible disabilities); monitoring and evaluating performance (for which we will want to understand the operator's own benchmarks for what it considers to be a successful performance), and the processes in place for acting on this to drive continuous improvement; capturing and responding to feedback from customers; and how the organisation is structured to deliver these arrangements. We will also consider the extent to which the operator can evidence that it has the right organisational values and behaviours towards disability. This includes the extent to which its senior management team is engaged with, and provides leadership and support to the frontline staff that deliver assistance,  and ensures that the right processes and systems are in place. The passenger document should follow the 2009 guidance, with particular emphasis on covering all mandatory or required standards. It is important that passenger-facing DPPPs are as clear as possible. We will consult stakeholders on whether greater standardisation in wording or presentation is valuable. Read our DPPP regulatory statement pdf icon PDF, 304 Kb . Process We will acknowledge receipt of the DPPP and supporting documents within 5 working days; Where the submission includes a material change – in the view of the operator or ORR – we will conduct the relevant consultation, as required by the licence. We aim to review and approve submitted DPPP within 20 working days of receipt of consultation responses where a material change is being considered; Operators should expect to assist us with resolving specific queries or issues. Where we have substantive concerns we will discuss these, and allow additional time for revisions to DPPP. In these cases we aim to resolve concerns within an agreed timescale. Further information 
file_702.txt|Notice pdf icon PDF, 4,347 Kb 5 February 2013 Earls Court 2013. A site north of West Brompton Station concerning a development over the West London Line. 
file_789.txt|Making an application Making an application Applications for our approval must be made under section 18 of the Railways Act 1993 (new access agreements) or section 22 (amendments to access agreements). Depending on their nature, some amendments may be automatically approved under a general approval . When the parties cannot agree the terms of a new agreement or amendments to an existing one, the party seeking access can ask us to direct an agreement under sections 17 or 22A of the Railways Act 1993, respectively. We have published criteria and procedures for the approval of: depot access agreementspdf icon PDF, 448 Kb . These documents are intended to be a comprehensive reference guide for use by any party intending to make a submission to us for consideration of regulatory approval. Applications for our approval should ideally be made electronically. Hard copies can be submitted, but we will usually also request an electronic version of the application. Please contact us to submit an application electronically. General approval Sections 18(1)(c) and 22(3) of the Railways Act 1993 enable us to give its prior approval for new access agreements and to the amendment of existing agreements. We anticipate that the majority of applications to us could be submitted in accordance with a general approval , provided that certain preconditions are met. Submissions made in accordance with a general approval typically undergo less scrutiny than submissions made for consideration of our specific approval. The use of general approvals is also consistent with our agenda of handing responsibility to the railway industry, in addition to allowing us to focus on areas where it can provide greater value, including policy development. Specific approval Where an application cannot be made under a general approval, it may still be submitted to us to consider granting our specific approval. Specific approval should be sought for amendments to agreements which do not fall under a general approval, or for new agreements which deviate from the permitted departures outlined in the guidance notes to our general approvals. To discuss any aspect of making an application to us, please contact us . Station and depot change proposals ORR will not typically comment on proposals for change if submitted to us, and will await formal submission for our approval of any subsequent amendments to the access documentation. The Stations & Depots and Network Code team can provide general advice, if requested, in advance of any submission. Any safety related queries about a proposal for change should be sent directly to our railway safety directorate at an early stage in the station/depot change process. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_127.txt|Forms available for download Learning resources Free online learning resources including quick and easy bite-sized modules as well as our Trustee toolkit downloadable resources. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit We provide a free online learning programme called the Trustee toolkit to help trustees understand their role. You must login or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. On this page 
file_16.txt|Has a right to join a pension scheme Over £5,772 to £10,000 Has a right to opt in Over £10,000 Has a right to opt in Automatically enrol Has a right to opt in Changes in age and earnings You’ll need to monitor any changes in age and earnings of your staff. Your business software eg your payroll, will need to be able to alert you to any new or existing staff becoming eligible for automatic enrolment. Other circumstances The law applies to people who work in the UK. If you have staff working outside the UK, read the section on ‘Working in the UK’ in Assessing the workforce detailed guidance (which you can find at the bottom of this page) for more information. If you have contractors or agency staff working for you, you’ll need to carry out other checks to see whether you have employer duties for them. See section 2 of our detailed guidance employer duties and defining the workforce, which you can find at the bottom of this page. Back to top When to assess We recommend you make a quick assessment of your workforce several months before your staging date. This is so you get an idea of who you'll have to enrol. You’ll need to make sure the data you hold about your staff, such as their full names, dates of birth, contact details and National Insurance numbers are all up to date. If you don't have a pension scheme already, you’ll have to find one. To find out how to choose a scheme and find a provider go to setting up a pension scheme . You'll have to do a formal assessment on your staging date (or after postponement) so you know exactly who you’ll have to automatically enrol. For more information go to On and after your staging date . 
file_994.txt|Ofqual is consulting on proposals to change how GCSE science practicals are assessed. 15 December 2014 — Consultation outcome We are considering removing the 'Regulatory Arrangements for the Qualifications and Credit Framework (QCF)'. 26 November 2014 — Speech Ofqual's Chief Regulator gave a speech on A level reform to Westminster Education Forum. 26 November 2014 — News story A quick guide on where to find our content on GOV.UK and how to access our archived content. 7 November 2014 — Open consultation Proposals for the new religious studies GCSE, AS and A level qualifications due be taught from 2016 Latest 
file_894.txt|Other track access decisions 2012-13 Other track access decisions 2012-13 This page contains all other archived track access decisions. Date 
file_958.txt|Useful links ONR quarterly news The quarterly news from the Office for Nuclear Regulation (ONR) is part of its efforts to carry out its work with greater openness and transparency. ONR will report on the key themes and developments in each of its regulatory programmes and it will bring thought and comment from senior regulators about safety and security in the UK nuclear industry. Quarterly news will provide an update about the ongoing changes at ONR, as it progresses toward becoming an independent statutory corporation, and will provide advance insight to the key issues in the quarter ahead. 2014 
file_818.txt|Licence exemptions by company T - Z This section lists railway licence exemptions for companies A – D. All copies of licence exemptions, granted by us are available in our public register . Abbreviations for terms used describing licence exemptions listed in this section: LMD: a light maintenance depot where services such as refuelling and cleaning trains takes place, and other frequent light maintenance work. Heritage: an operation primarily used for tourist, educational or recreational purposes of non-mainline passenger services and assets, usually on a preserved railway line. Network: a railway line or combination of lines and installations. Licence exempt networks are usually functionally separate from the national network. Usually they will also be operated within a fenced or controlled access territory. This includes freight sidings or goods terminals. Contractor: a rail maintenance company which undertakes track maintenance and repair, usually on behalf of Network Rail. Maintenance activities take place within engineering possessions using specialist or Rail Mounted Maintenance Vehicles (RMMVs). Non-passenger trains: freight or maintenance trains. In the context of exemptions, this would include short distance, non-mainline shunting operations in specific areas. All licence exemptions are published by, exemption title, description of exemption and the date it came into force. 
file_153.txt|For more information about Xasis go to http://xasis.com/page/privacy-policy To opt out of Xasis cookies go to http://xasis.com/common/OPT-OUT_call.html For more information about Doubleclick go to http://www.google.co.uk/doubleclick To opt of Doubleclick / Google cookies go to http://www.groupm.com/privacy-policy For more information about quantcast go to https://www.quantcast.com/how-we-do-it/consumer-choice/privacy-policy To opt out of quantcast cookies go to https://www.quantcast.com/company/opt-out For more information about Numbate go to http://www.mobileapptracking.com/privacy-policy To opt out of Numbate mobile app tracking go to http://www.optoutmobile.com/optout/index.html For more information about Martini Media go to http://martinimediainc.com/privacy-policy To opt out of Martini Media cookies go to http://martinimediainc.com/opt-out For more information about Media IQ go to http://mediaiqdigital.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/privacyPolicy.pdf To opt out of Media IQ cookies go to http://www.youronlinechoices.com/uk/your-ad-choices For more information on the Guardian go to http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy To opt out of the Guardian's cookies go to http://www.theguardian.com/advertising/advertising-terms-conditions Back to top Social networking cookies We use AddThis to allow users to share content via Social Networking website and email. When we provide links to third party services you find useful, they may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Name 
file_200.txt|Home About us Making a payment to the MHRA Making a payment to the MHRA This section gives details of how to make payments to the MHRA, either by bank transfer or by debit or credit card. . Credit or debit card form This form is for making payments for outstanding invoices or making pre-payments to the MHRA using a credit or debit card. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this iRIS online account management facility iRIS is an online account management facility.  You will be able to use it to view your account details online. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Our bank account details This page gives details of the MHRA’s bank accounts to be used when remitting payment of invoices or in advance of applications. Terms and conditions This page sets out the terms and conditions for credit or debit card payments to the MHRA. 
file_139.txt|Forms available for download Forms available for download Some documents available on this page are published in PDF format. To view our PDF documents you'll need the free Adobe Reader . Some of the forms on this page are available to download as Microsoft Word and Excel documents. To save a document to your computer, right click on the link and select 'Save Target As'. Please note that sending information by email is not secure and is done so at your own risk. Back to top Cross-border schemes European regulators have agreed Service Level Agreements (SLAs) for the cross border application process. In order to ensure these can be met, we strongly advise the trustees, the employer or their advisers to contact us via customer support before completing any cross border application. This will ensure that all information and document requirements can be met. In the absence of such contact, the processing of any cross border application may be delayed. Notifiable event You can now submit a notifiable event online using Exchange . Please note that you don't need to be fully 'associated' to a pension scheme to report in this way. If you have any questions, you can call our customer support team on: 0845 600 0707 (option 2) Reporting breach You can now submit a breach of the law report online using Exchange . Please note that you don't need to be fully 'associated' to a pension scheme to report in this way. If you have any questions, you can call our customer support team on: 0845 600 0707 (option 2) Valuation summary You can now complete and submit your valuation summary form online using Exchange . A valuation summary is a form to be completed when a recovery plan and schedule of contributions have been agreed by the trustees and the employer, following an actuarial valuation. To fully comply with these requirements, and to ensure appropriate data validation and processing, a new valuation summary and the accompanying recovery plan and schedule of contributions should be submitted online using Exchange, for each valuation submitted. Recovery plan revisions and supporting explanations should also be submitted online using Exchange. Information regarding your scheme funding valuation and recovery plan When a scheme is required to introduce or retain a recovery plan following an actuarial valuation*, the trustees or managers of a scheme are required to send a copy of the recovery plan and schedule of contributions to the Pensions Regulator. There is a requirement (under Scheme Funding Regulations (SI 2005/3377) regulation 8(7)(a)) to accompany this with a summary of the information contained in the valuation. This is explained in greater detail in paragraph 155 of our Code of practice 03: Funding defined benefits . Where there are subsequent, ad hoc revisions to a recovery plan, there is also a requirement under regulation 8(7)(b) to submit the updated plan, along with an explanation of the reasons for the revisions. * under Part 3 of the Pensions Act 2004. 
file_918.txt|Network Rail in breach of licence for declining performance Following an extensive investigation into declining punctuality on key parts of Britain's railways, the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) has found Network Rail in breach of its licence and has proposed two enforcement orders requiring the company to develop new robust plans to help recover performance. 
file_305.txt|Your browser does not support iframes. Export and Save 
file_730.txt|HS1 access charges reviews HS1 access charges reviews Under the terms of the concession agreement , interim access charges reviews may take place at any time outside the usual periodic review cycle. This page contains further information on such reviews which have taken place. Charging framework The government has established a charging framework for the High Speed 1 (HS1) network through the concession agreement. This framework has been established pursuant to regulation 12(4) of The Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations (the Regulations). Amongst other, non-levied charges, the framework provides that track access charges may include: an investment recovery charge to recover the capital costs of the HS1 project; charges relating to the operation, maintenance and renewal of the HS1 network; and discounts in accordance with the Regulations. Freight avoidable cost review by High Speed 1 Limited 
file_921.txt|New ORR data shows passenger journeys at record high New statistics published today by the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) show that the number of passenger journeys on franchised rail services reached 407.7 million between July and September this year (Q2, 2014-15), a 4.4% increase on the same quarter last year. 
file_700.txt|Interests in railway vehicles Condition 5 - interests in railway vehicles Consents granted under condition 5 (interests in railway vehicles) of Network Rail's network licence since 2012 are listed below. For earlier consents, please visit the National Archives . Date of consent 
file_488.txt|The panel is made up of seven experts with a wide range of experience: Julian Franks Julian Franks is a Professor of Finance and Academic Director of the Centre of Corporate Governance at the London Business School. Julian is widely published, in which his research focuses on bankruptcy and financial distress, corporate ownership and control, cost of capital and regulation. His work on ownership and control (with Colin Mayer and Stefano Rossi) has won two international prizes. Two of his published papers have been awarded prizes for the 'best paper' of the year. He is Associate Editor of five finance journals, a member of various advisory boards and consults widely. He served as a member of the DTI-Treasury committee for reviewing the UK's insolvency code and was a member of one of The Company Law Review's committees on corporate governance. He is an advisor to Ofcom and other UK regulatory authorities. He has been an expert witness for the UK government at The World Court at The Hague on an inter-governmental dispute on the matter of landing rights at Heathrow and more recently for Ofcom in various appeals to the Competition Appeals Tribunal. He advised (with Professor Brealey) The Office of Constitutional Affairs on the issue of outside equity for law firms and provided advice to a Treasury committee chaired by Paul Myners on a review of the governance of mutuals. He was a member of a government taskforce investigating new avenues of finance for small to medium sized companies. He is a non-executive director of OXERA and is on the international advisory boards of Stern Stewart. He has been a Visiting Professor at the University of California at both Berkeley and Los Angeles. Stephen Glaister Professor Glaister (CBE FICE FTRF FCGI) is Director of the RAC Foundation and Emeritus Professor of Transport and Infrastructure at Imperial College London. Until 1998 he was at the London School of Economics. He was a member of the Board of Transport for London 2000 to 2008 and a non-executive director of London Regional Transport from 1984 until 1993. In 2009-10 he was Partnership Director of Tube Lines. He was a member of the Steering Group for the Department for Transport's 2004 National Road Pricing Feasibility Study and was a member of the "Friends" group advising Sir Rod Eddington on his Transport Study. He was a member of the External Challenge Group for High Speed 2 (HS2). Between 1993 and spring 2001 he was an economic advisor to the Rail Regulator. He was a member of the Government's first Advisory Committee on Trunk Road Assessment and he has been Specialist Advisor to the Parliamentary Select Committee on Transport and an advisor to the Commission for Integrated Transport. He has published widely on transport policy and also on regulation in the telecommunications, water and gas industries. He is the principal author of a series of studies of road investment and pricing. Simon Less Simon Less is senior visiting fellow on regulatory policy at Policy Exchange, an independent think tank; and a director of Lucerna Partners, a regulation and public policy consultancy. Simon was the first director of market reform at Ofwat, leading a review that established the shape of market reform in the government's 2013 Water Bill and establishing Ofwat's market reform function. He was research director for energy and environment policy at Policy Exchange, publishing a series of widely cited research reports. Simon also headed up the competition and economic regulation team in HM Treasury, and prior to that held other senior civil service positions in HM Treasury and the Ministry of Justice, including leading a fundamental review of legal aid. Simon is a senior research associate at the Regulatory Policy Institute; and he was a member of Ofwat's Future Regulation Advisory Panel. Michael Pollitt Michael Pollitt is a University Reader in Business Economics and Director of Programmes at the Judge Business School, University of Cambridge. He is an Assistant Director of the ESRC Electricity Policy Research Group (EPRG). Michael is a Fellow and Director of Studies in Economics and Management at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge. From 2001-2005 Michael was co-leader of the Cambridge-MIT Electricity Project and served as founding Executive Director of the EPRG in 2005 and 2006. Michael is an economist with particular interests in the efficiency and regulation of network utilities. He has published 9 books and over 50 refereed journal articles on efficiency analysis, energy policy and business ethics. He is the first coach of the Energy and Environment concentration on the Judge's MBA. Michael was external economic advisor to Ofgem between 2007 and 2011, where he worked on the RPI-X@20 review of network regulation project, Project Discovery, the fifth Distribution Price Control Review and the Transmission Access Review, among other projects. Michael is currently an energy advisor to Which? He has also advised national energy regulators in The Netherlands, France, Germany and Austria as well as the UK Competition Commission and the UK rail regulator. Michael has been a member of the Expert Panel on Input Methodologies for the New Zealand Commerce Commission examining network regulation for electricity, gas and airports, and is a member of the Future Challenges panel of the UK water regulator. Jon Stern Jon Stern is a Senior Visiting Fellow and a founder member of the Centre for Competition and Regulatory Policy (CCRP) in the Department of Economics at City University, London, where he was also Research Director. He is also a Senior Advisor at CEPA (Cambridge Economic Policy Associates) and an Associate Researcher at EPRG, Cambridge. Previously, Jon Stern was Associate Director of the Regulation Initiative at the London Business School. Jon has worked extensively as an economic consultant and before that he spent over 15 years as an economist in the UK Government Economic Service. He is a co-author of the Handbook for Evaluating Infrastructure Regulatory Systems (World Bank, 2006) and has also published a sizeable number of papers on infrastructure industries and their regulation in both developed and developing countries. He is currently a member of academic panels convened by Ofgem and Ofwat. Jon is a general public policy economist. His specialist areas include: The economics of infrastructure industries, including energy and water Economic regulation and regulatory governance issues Economic evaluation studies and methods George Yarrow Professor Yarrow is currently Chairman of the Regulatory Policy Institute, Oxford; Emeritus Fellow of Hertford College, Oxford University; Visiting Professor at the Newcastle University Business School; an adviser to the UK Civil Aviation Authority; and a member of the (UK water regulator) Ofwat Advisory Panel. He has also recently been a member of the UK National Audit Office's academic panel on regulatory impact assessment; a member of the Republic of Ireland's Aviation Appeal Panel; and an adviser to the New Zealand Commerce Commission. Until April 2009, Professor Yarrow was a Board Member of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority (GEMA), the GB energy regulator and the body responsible for the enforcement of UK and European Competition Law in the energy sector. He has written reports for the Australian Energy Market Commission, and is currently reviewing regulatory work to date on market power in wholesale electricity markets for the Australian government's Department of Resources. After graduating from Cambridge University, he held appointments at the Universities of Warwick and Newcastle before moving to Oxford, where he spent most of his academic career. He has also had visiting (sabbatical) affiliations with Harvard University, the University of California at San Diego, the University of Urbino, and Queen Mary and Westfield College, University of London. His principal work has been on the economics of competition, regulation and privatization, although he has also written on: environmental policies; corporate objectives and the market for corporate control; aspects of industrial organization theory; monetary theory; health economics; and the reform of social security. His best known works are "Privatization in theory and practice", Economic Policy, 1986, variously reprinted and translated, and, with Professor Sir John Vickers, Privatization: An Economic Analysis, published by MIT Press in 1988, and subsequently in Spanish and Chinese editions. In the energy sector, Professor Yarrow has experience of virtually every major aspect of UK policy development over the past twenty five years. He was economic adviser to the National Grid for the initial design of the transmission use-of-system charges for high voltage electricity grid, and subsequently to British Gas for the development of similar entry/exit arrangements for gas pipeline capacity. Later, first as economic adviser to the energy regulator and then as a member of the Executive as a Board Member, he was involved in the full range of regulatory reforms introduced in the UK from the mid-1990s on, including: retail market opening, retail market deregulation, gas storage deregulation, the new electricity trading arrangements (NETA), the new gas trading arrangements (NGTA), the establishment of the first energy exchanges, the integration of the Scottish and England & Wales electric systems; and the enforcement of the Competition Act in the energy sector. Professor Yarrow has a longstanding interest in competition law and policy. Over the years, he has written reports and given evidence in a large number of competition cases considered by the Competition Commission, the Office of Fair Trading, the High Court and the Competition Appeals Tribunal in the UK, and the European Commission, the CFI/ECJ at EU level. Together with Peter Freeman, recently retired Chairman of the Competition Commission, he founded the Regulatory Policy Institute (in 1991), in part as a response to weaknesses and failures in the economic assessments of the UK competition agencies of the time. Although he gave up university teaching in 1997, Professor Yarrow has continued to give lectures on competition and regulation. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_342.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_942.txt|Terms and conditions Terms and conditions This page (including the documents and pages it refers to) tells you the terms of use which you agree to when you use orr.gov.uk. If you have any questions about the following, please contact us. Using our website The Office of Rail Regulation website is maintained for your personal use and viewing. Access and use by you of this site constitutes acceptance by you of these Terms and Conditions that take effect from the date of first use. We may alter these terms and conditions at any time. Please remember that the information on these pages can only provide general guidance and should not be read as a substitute for the law. ORR will always try to ensure that all material on these pages is accurate but we cannot guarantee that it will be free from error at all times. Intellectual property The names, images and logos identifying the Office of Rail Regulation, are proprietary marks of the Office of Rail Regulation. Copying our logos and/or any other third party logos accessed via this website is not permitted without prior approval from the relevant copyright owner. Requests for permission to use our logo should be directed to us. Please contact us. Tell us how and why your wish to use our logo(s). Please include your contact details name, address, telephone number, fax number and email. Crown Copyright © Crown copyright, 2014. The material featured on this website is subject to Crown copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. You may use and reuse the information featured on this website (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under the terms of the Open Government Licence . We encourage users to establish hypertext links to this website. Any enquiries regarding the use and re-use of this information resource should be sent to email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk Third party content The permission to reproduce Crown copyright material does not extend to any material on this website which is identified as being the copyright of a third party. Authorisation to reproduce such material would need to be obtained from the copyright holders concerned. Hyperlinking to us at the Office of Rail Regulation You do not have to ask permission to link directly to pages hosted on this site. We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on our site. However, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The Office of Rail Regulation pages must load into the user's entire window. Hyperlinking by us at the Office of Rail Regulation It is our policy to obtain permission to link to other websites. We are not responsible for the content or reliability of the linked websites. Listing should not be taken as endorsement of any kind. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all of the time and we have no control over the availability of linked pages. Back to the top Virus protection We make every effort to check and test material at all stages of production. It is always wise for you to run an anti-virus program on all material downloaded from the Internet. We cannot accept any responsibility for any loss, disruption or damage to your data or your computer system which may occur whilst using material derived from this website. Privacy statement Site usage information The Office of Rail regulation uses Google web analytics to measure and analyse information about the use of this website. The analytics tool uses cookies to provide statistical information about visits to pages and other information relating to usage of this website including the IP address of visitors and data about your browser type and computer operating system. The information gathered does not contain any personal information about you. The regulator's web team uses the information provided by Google analytics to make informed decisions about future website developments. More about cookies A cookie is a small file that contains a unique, anonymous number. It does not contain any personal information. A cookie is stored on your computer when you visit a website and is used to recognise any repeat visits that you make to that site. The cookie cannot be used to identify you on websites of third parties. It is possible to configure your web browser to refuse cookies or to be informed if a cookie is set. Please refer to your web browser help files for instructions. Find out more about cookies on our policy page . Information charter ORR handles information in accordance with Cabinet Office protective marking guidelines. Protective markings are labels applied to information to show: the correct level of protection the information has; the processes to be followed for handling that information; and the severity of impact should the information be lost or inappropriately transmitted. ORR is bound by the principles of the Data Protection Act 1998. Personal data is protected within ORR according to Cabinet Office guidelines. If ORR receives a request for information which constitutes personal data, then the ORR would treat the request as a subject access request under the Data Protection Act 1998. Generally, the ORR is not obliged, under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 or the Data Protection Act 1998, to disclose any information which is personal data relating to another individual. Under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, members of the public have the right to request access to information held by ORR. ORR believes that it is in the public interest to make information readily accessible and for it to be subject to public scrutiny. If members of the public have any concerns about the handling of information at ORR, they should contact the customer correspondence team who can be contacted as follows: Customer correspondence team 
file_24.txt|You can only postpone automatic enrolment from: your staging date a staff member’s first day of employment the date a staff member first becomes eligible for automatic enrolment. If you postpone from your staging date, it doesn’t change your staging date. Back to top Postponing automatic enrolment You must write to tell the staff whose automatic enrolment you’re postponing. You will have six weeks from the date postponement starts to write to them. There’s no need to tell us that you’ve decided to postpone automatic enrolment. You can postpone for up to three months. You can postpone as many or as few staff as you like and the postponement period doesn’t have to be the same length for everyone. Our employer letter template tool helps you write to staff as required by law. There are four letters you can use for postponement for different circumstances. If you’re postponing from staging, we recommend you use letter template 6, below. You can tailor the letter templates to your needs. Back to top During the postponement period Staff whose automatic enrolment you’ve postponed can choose to opt in to your pension scheme during the postponement period. For more information about what to do if you get an opt-in request go to opting in and joining . Back to top At the end of the postponement period On the last day of the postponement period, you’ll need to know whether any member of staff whose automatic enrolment you’ve postponed is still eligible to be automatically enrolled. If they are, you must put them into a pension scheme straight away. You cannot apply a further period of postponement even if you postponed for less than the three months allowed. 
file_137.txt|Prohibition of trustees The Determinations Panel Members of the Determinations Panel are people with legal, business and / or pensions knowledge. The structure of the Determinations Panel is set out in Section 9 of the Pensions Act 2004 which requires the Determinations Panel to consist of: a chairman (appointed by the regulator); and at least six other persons (nominated by the chairman of the Panel and  appointed by the regulator). Further provision about the Determinations Panel is made in Schedule 1 to the Act, including provision as to the terms of appointment, tenure and remuneration of members and its procedure. On this page... Current members Andrew Long (chair) Andrew is deputy chair (formerly chair) of the Regulatory Decisions Committee at the Financial Conduct Authority and a judge of the Tax Chamber of the Finance and Tax Tribunal. He is also a member of the Enforcement Decision Panel for Ofgem, a deputy district judge of the High Court and County Court and a panel chair for the Access Disputes Committee for the regulated rail industry. Andrew spent much of his career at Pinsent Masons Solicitors where he was a partner for 16 years. Tony Foster Tony is currently a Board member at the Office of Legal Complaints, chair of the Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories Agency, and a non-executive director at an NHS Foundation Trust. Tony has spent most of his career in the chemical industry, including as director at ICI Chemicals and Polymers Limited and chief executive at ICI Chlorchemicals Business. He was also a commissioner at the Criminal Cases Review Commission for ten years, and non-executive director at the Competition Commission. Tony was a lay member of the Financial Protection Committee at the Solicitors Regulation Authority and a member of the Discipline Committee at the Institute of Chartered Accountants. Peter Hinchliffe Peter is a barrister and currently holds a number of legal and regulatory positions. He is a judge in the Consumer Credit, Charity and Social Security Tribunals, Counsel at the Charities Aid Foundation (a charity providing banking and other financial services to the charity sector), a member of the Regulatory Decisions Committee at the Financial Conduct Authority, a member of HM Treasury Independent Review Panel for the Equitable Life Compensation Scheme and chair of the Adjudication Panel at the CLC. Peter was lead ombudsman for insurance at the Financial Ombudsman Service until 2010 and has spoken and written extensively on consumer issues. Prior to that he held senior management positions at Cancer Research UK and GEC plc. He is an experienced non-executive director and charity trustee. David Latham For the past five years David has been president of the Employment Tribunals in England and Wales. This role involves chairing, leading and judicially managing 12 regional employment judges and around 400 employment judges. He retired from this position on 31 March 2014. He was also the director of National Judicial Training for Employment Tribunals in England and Wales. David has also been both a part time and full time chairman (judge) for the Employment Tribunals in Leeds. David has been a solicitor for much of his career, including as Managing Partner. Matthew Lohn Matthew Lohn is the Senior Partner at Fieldfisher, and specialises in advising statutory and royal charter regulators. He also holds a number of external appointments including panel chair for the Horseracing Regulatory Authority’s disciplinary panel and legal chair for the National Anti-Doping Panel. Matthew is a member of the Complaints Committee for IPSO (Independent Press Standards Organisation), established in September 2014. He also sits as an independent panel chair for the Rugby Football Union. Elizabeth Neville Elizabeth has spent much of her career within the police service, including seven years as the chief constable for the Wiltshire Constabulary, as well as time with the Metropolitan, Thames Valley, Sussex and Northamptonshire police forces. More recently Elizabeth has, amongst other roles, been an independent complaints assessor for the Department for Transport and a member of the Police Appeals Tribunal, a member of the Civil Nuclear Police Authority and a non-executive director at the Serious Fraud Office. She is currently an independent adjudicator at Companies House, a non-executive director of The Insolvency Service, a lay member of the Independent Appeals Body for PhonepayPlus (regulator for premium rate services), an appeal officer for the Regulator of Community Interest Companies, and a member of the Regulatory Decisions Committee of the Financial Conduct Authority. Catharine Seddon For much of Catharine Seddon’s career she has worked as a documentary filmmaker for the BBC and Channel 4 as well as writing for a number of national newspapers. In 1997, she founded her own independent television production company, Cat's Eye. Catharine is currently a board member for the Human Tissue Authority and chair of its audit committee, and a member of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority independent appeals committee. She also sits in the Social Entitlement Chamber; the Employment Tribunal; and the Mental Health Tribunal. She is a magistrate and trustee of the London Centre for Children with Cerebral Palsy. Alasdair Smith Alasdair is a former vice-chancellor of the University of Sussex where he is currently research professor of economics. His academic career was at University College Oxford and the London School of Economics before he joined the University of Sussex in 1981. He was a member of the group of experts for the Independent Public Service Pensions Commission chaired by Lord Hutton. Alasdair is currently chair of the Armed Forces Pay Review Body, a member of the Review Body on Senior Salaries, and a Deputy Chair of the Competition Commission. Anthony Stern Anthony has a background in finance, both in banking and most recently as the head of treasury at InterContinental Hotels Group plc (IHG) with responsibility for treasury, financing and investment activities in over 100 countries in which the group has hotels. For two years (2001 to 2002) he was president of the Association of Corporate Treasurers. He is a trustee director of the IHG UK pension trust and was formerly chairman of another FTSE 100 pension fund. Anthony has also worked with the Economist Intelligence Unit and is currently a panel member and on the audit committee of the UK Competition Commission. Back to top Members' expenses We publish the expenses for the regulator's Determinations Panel chair and members for each quarter. This includes all expenses incurred for travel, accommodation and meals etc, as well as any hospitality given to others. A separate sheet shows any hospitality received by these individuals in their capacity as the regulator's Determinations Panel members during the specified quarter. Some explanatory notes: Expenses are incurred by the regulator's Determinations Panel members in two ways. Either individuals spend their own money whilst on the regulator's business and then claim it back (see staff and board / panel expenses policies in our Publication Scheme) or, particularly for travel and accommodation that needs to be booked in advance, the regulator makes bookings directly and is invoiced for the cost. For this reason, these expenses will be published for the quarter in which they were paid, and therefore may not necessarily appear alongside other expenses (claimed back in arrears) for the same trip. 
file_304.txt|Your browser does not support iframes. Export and Save 
file_611.txt|Why it is necessary Why develop rail manager competence on occupational health? Why the rail industry should do more to improve the competence of its managers on health, including the business benefits and ORR's 2010 baseline assessment of health management in rail. Employers have duties under health and safety law to consider the capabilities of their employees, including managers, and to provide the health and safety training they need to do their job. Ensuring that your front line managers have the right level of skills and knowledge on occupational health will help them to fulfil their responsibilities for managing the health risks to their staff. It should also deliver real business benefits by increasing productivity, reducing sickness absence and costly insurance claims, and helping you to get the most from specialist occupational health practitioners. If you equip your managers to look after the health as well as the safety of your workers now, you are less likely to store up expensive problems for either your business or your workforce in the future. Dame Carol Black's 'Working for a healthier tomorrow' review of the health of Britain's working age population identified line managers as a key agent of change and recommended that 'line managers should be supported to understand that the health and wellbeing of employees is their responsibility, and should be willing to take action when health and well-being are at risk'. We identified a need for improved competence on occupational health among rail managers in our baseline assessment of health management in the rail industry in 2010. We found evidence of poor understanding of health based risk assessment by managers; too much focus on reactive management of ill health and managing for attendance; and a lack of clarity over the respective roles and responsibilities of front line managers, Human Resources (HR), and occupational health practitioners in managing occupational health. In response to our health programme 2010-14 pdf icon PDF, 707 Kb , mainline rail companies have, in consultation with RSSB, identified 'increased line management competence and buy in' as a key issue in moving the mainline industry forward in its management of occupational health risks. Ensuring that front line managers and supervisors develop and maintain the appropriate skills and knowledge in health risk management will be an important component in delivering this aim. Last updated - 28 April 2014 
file_937.txt|Latest quarterly data shows rail complaints on the rise Latest quarterly data shows rail complaints on the rise 18 December 2014 The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) has today published latest data on rail passenger complaints which shows a 5.8% increase in the rate of complaints compared to the same quarter last year. The 'Passenger Rail Service Satisfaction' statistical release contains information on complaints from passengers on various aspects of rail services up to September 2014. Latest quarterly figures from 1 July to 30 September 2014 (2014-15 Q2) show: There were 27.6 complaints per 100,000 train journeys in 2014-15 Q2 compared with 26.1 in the same quarter last year – an increase of 5.8%. Train service performance, which includes punctuality, was the leading cause of complaint in Q2 making 30.7% of all complaints received by TOCs. Train quality complaints make up the second largest share of complaints in Q2 at 18.4% of all complaints received by TOCs – an increase of 3.1 percentage points compared with Q2 last year. Eleven train operators reported a rise in complaints per 100,000 passenger journeys, while seven train operators experienced a fall in the number of complaints per 100,000 passenger journeys. The most popular category of contact methods was email/webform – 15 out of the 18 train operators received over 50% of their complaints via this method. To read the full report visit: http://orr.gov.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0020/16364/passenger-rail-service-2014-15-q2.pdf pdf icon PDF, 444 Kb To find out about the methodology and quality report visit: http://orr.gov.uk/statistics/published-stats/statistical-releases Here's an ORR blog about why it is so hard to capture complaints through social media: http://orr.gov.uk/news-and-media/rail-regulator-blog/why-is-it-so-hard-to-capture-complaints-made-through-social-media 
file_236.txt|Home About us What we regulate What we regulate Blood The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is responsible for the regulation of medicines and medical devices and equipment used in healthcare, and the investigation of harmful incidents. The MHRA also looks after blood and blood products, working with UK blood services, healthcare providers, and other relevant organisations to improve blood quality and safety. Medicines Whether it is a medicine you buy, or one prescribed for you as part of a course of treatment, it is reassuring to know that all medicines available in the UK are subject to rigorous scrutiny by the MHRA before they can be used by patients. This ensures that medicines meet acceptable standards on safety, quality and efficacy. But what is, and is not, a medicine? The law defines a medicine as something used in disease, whether it is used to prevent, treat or diagnose it, in anaesthesia, investigating conditions or interfering with the normal operation of the body. It does not include such things as contact lens fluids, food supplements and cosmetics. Many factors are considered in deciding whether a product is actually a medicine such as what it contains, what it’s advertised or used for, the way it will be used, any particular targeting of the marketing information and what the promotional literature says. Claims that a product 'supports' health or a healthy lifestyle is not usually considered as medicinal. Control of medicines starts as soon as they are first discovered and tested in healthy volunteers, all the way through to when a company wants to change the conditions its products are approved for, such as changing the colour of the tablet or what it is used for. Devices What is, and is not, a medical device? The term 'medical device' covers all products, except medicines, used in healthcare for the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring or treatment of illness or disability. The range of products is very wide: it includes contact lenses and condoms; heart valves and hospital beds; resuscitators and radiotherapy machines; surgical instruments and syringes; wheelchairs and walking frames or other assistive technology products - many thousands of items used each and every day by healthcare providers and patients. The list of items here is not comprehensive but shows the wide range of products that are considered to be medical devices: General Catheters (for example, urinary, cardiac) Chiropody equipment Implants - powered and non-powered (e.g. implantable defibrillators, pacemakers, heart valves, orthopaedic prostheses, bone cements) IV administration sets and pumps Ophthalmic equipment Patient monitoring equipment (e.g. cardiac monitors) Physiotherapy equipment Radiotherapy equipment (brachytherapy external beam) Sphygmomanometers X-ray systems, ultrasound imagers and CT/MR scanners For patient transportation or moving (but not including ambulance vehicles themselves): Carry chairs For people with a disability: Orthotic and prosthetic appliances Wheelchairs and special support seating For daily living: Special chairs Urine drainage systems Medical devices and equipment also include the following in vitro diagnostic medical devices and their accessories: Blood gas analysers Devices for blood glucose measurement Hepatitis and HIV test kits Pregnancy test kits Contact lenses and care products Intra-uterine devices (IUDs) We are also interested in products which, whilst not themselves medical devices, are used closely in conjunction with these devices. For example: Blood and tissue storage systems Chemical and biological indicators used in sterilization processes Disinfecting and sterilizing equipment Medical devices do not include ambulance vehicles, general workshop equipment such as power or machine tools, or general purpose laboratory equipment. Pre-filled devices, for example, drug inhalers, syringes and certain other drug/device combinations are classed as medicines, not medical devices, and should be reported via the Yellow Card scheme. The MHRA Adverse Incident Centre staff will be happy to provide advice in any cases of doubt. Go to information on how we regulate devices Advanced therapy medicinal products Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs) are medicinal products which are prepared industrially or manufactured by a method involving an industrial process. Specifically, an ATMP is a medicinal product which is either a gene therapy medicinal product, a somatic cell therapy medicinal product or a tissue engineered product. Under the ATMP Regulation, the Centralised authorisation procedure will apply to ATMPs which are intended to be placed on the market in the Community. A new committee, the Committee for Advanced Therapies (CAT) has been established at the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The CAT is responsible for preparing a draft opinion on the quality safety and efficacy of each ATMP for which a marketing authorisation application is submitted. The CAT’s opinion will be submitted to the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) for final approval. Further information is available on the EMA’s website (external link) In the UK, the MHRA is the supervisory authority for UK manufacturers or importers of centrally authorised ATMPs, as well as the competent authority for ATMPs which are prepared and used under the hospital exemption and made and supplied under the ‘Specials’ scheme. The MHRA is also the competent authority for the assessment of applications for clinical trial authorisations and the associated manufacturer’s licence for investigational ATMPs. Go to information on how we regulate advanced therapy medicinal products Blood The MHRA is responsible for regulating blood establishments and hospital blood banks. Statutory Instrument 2005 No. 50 and its Amendment (SI 2005/2898) about blood safety and quality became effective from 8 November 2005. The Regulations set the standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components. The Principal Regulations require and provide for: Blood establishments (primarily the national blood services of England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland - the “UK Blood Service”) to be authorised and inspected, a process very similar to the existing arrangements operated by the MHRA under the Medicines Act.  The Regulations define a blood establishment as an organisation which collects and tests blood and blood components, whatever their intended purpose; and processes, stores and distributes blood and blood components when they are intended for transfusion. Hospital blood banks to establish systems for quality management and haemovigilance1 and the MHRA to have powers to monitor compliance. A hospital blood bank is defined in the Regulations as any unit within a hospital which stores and distributes and may perform compatibility tests on, blood and blood components exclusively for use within hospital facilities, including hospital based transfusion activities. The Regulations do not require authorisation or routine inspection of blood banks. However, inspections of blood banks “for cause” may be carried out by the MHRA. Blood banks or blood establishments that are operating as blood banks are required to submit an annual return to the department setting out how they comply with the requirements of the Regulations. Blood establishments and hospital blood banks to report to the MHRA  any serious adverse events or serious adverse reactions related to blood and blood components. 1 Haemovigilance comprises a set of organised surveillance procedures relating to serious adverse or unexpected events or reactions in donors or recipients and the epidemiological follow-up of donors. 
file_799.txt|Disabled people's protection policy Disabled people's protection policy (DPPP) Train and station operators are required by their operating licences to establish and comply with a disabled people's protection policy (DPPP) which must be approved by us. A DPPP sets out, amongst other things, the arrangements and assistance that an operator will provide to protect the interests of disabled people using its services and to facilitate such use. The 2009 Guidance on how to write your DPPP pdf icon PDF, 672 Kb forms the basis of ORR's review and approval of operators DPPP . Here we provide information aimed at train and station operators about complying with these requirements. Operators should also refer to our July 2014 regulatory statement pdf icon PDF, 304 Kb . Information for disabled and older passengers, on the types of services they can expect to receive when travelling by train is available on our website in our passengers with disabilities section. The approval process Approval of DPPPs for new franchises or new operators Newly licensed operators or those with new franchise awards must establish and comply with a DPPP. The licence condition sets out the steps required. Read more about approval of DPPPs for new franchises or new operators Annual review of existing DPPPs Our regulatory statement pdf icon PDF, 304 Kb explains that we do not require operators with existing DPPPs to submit these to us on the anniversary of its approval. Operators should refer to our regulatory statement for more details. An operator should still keep its DPPP under review. Approval will be required where a material change to a DPPP is proposed. Read more about review of existing DPPPs Decision letters Once we have given our approval to a DPPP, we will publish a decision letter. The letter will summarise any issues that were raised during the approval process, note areas of good practice or highlight areas where we feel a licence holder should particularly seek to improve its practices. Approval of LOROL's DPPP pdf icon PDF, 888 Kb Monitoring Our regulatory statement on DPPP describes the monitoring arrangements we will be establishing in during 2014/15, this includes the use of a core data set and the information that operators produce to monitor and evaluate their own success in meeting their DPPP standards pdf icon PDF, 304 Kb . We will also: hold regular meetings with Passenger Focus and London TravelWatch to discuss their views and research; review additional market research relevant to ensuring disabled people can travel confidently on the railways; and on occasion we may require additional information from operators, where possible we intend to rely on the information operators' already produce to monitor and evaluate complaints and their procedures. A newly licensed operator, or newly awarded franchise, may have limited experience or data on which to develop its DPPP. For this reason, we would expect an operators of a newly approved DPPP to review its effectiveness in providing assistance within a suitable period, to allow for changes in light  of experience. Further information 
file_496.txt|Memoranda of Understandings Memoranda of Understandings We have Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) with a number of different government departments and agencies to promote effective coordination of the regulatory roles of each body, and effective cooperation between them. They are not intended to be legally binding or to create expectations whose non-fulfillment would give rise to rights at law. We also have agency agreements with different government departments. These have legal effect, and transfer various statutory functions, by agreement, from one body to the other. MOUs CMA / ORR Memorandum of Understanding pdf icon PDF, 300 Kb 22 May 2014 Memorandum of Understanding between the Competition and Markets Authority and the Office of Rail Regulation: concurrent competition powers Memorandum of Understanding between ORR and the Heritage Railway Association relating to publication of guidance on minor railways pdf icon PDF, 78 Kb 31 Jul 2013 The purpose of this MoU is to transfer to the Heritage Railway Association (HRA) the responsibility for reviewing and updating the guidance on minor railways to ensure it continues to reflect good practice. 
file_643.txt|Risk management Risk management guidance High-level guidance and general principles on assessing whether risks on Britain's railways have been reduced so far as is reasonably practicable (SFAIRP) and the use of cost benefit analysis (CBA) in support of safety-related decisions. We have reviewed and issued revised guidance on: assessing whether risks on Britain's railways have been reduced so far as is reasonably practicable; and on the use of cost benefit analysis in support of safety-related investment decisions. As part of a review of our guidance on the use of CBA in support of safety-related investment decisions, we considered and responded to stakeholders' views following a consultation. Further information Risk management guidance 
file_29.txt|Opting in and joining are not the same. Staff opt in or join by writing to you. The pension scheme you use for staff who opt in must be suitable for automatic enrolment. You don’t have to pay an employer contribution into the pensions of staff who join. How staff opt in or join As part of your employer duties, you’ll have written to the staff who weren’t eligible for automatic enrolment telling them about their right to opt into, or join, a pension scheme. Staff can decide to opt in or join at any point. They do this by writing to you. Back to top When you receive an opt in or joining request All requests to opt in or join must be in writing and signed by the person asking to opt in or join. If they sent it to you electronically, it must include a statement from them that they personally submitted the request. It could be months or even years after you first told staff about their right to opt in or join that they choose to do so. So you’ll need to check they’re still entitled to opt in or join by checking their age and earnings. Your business software (eg payroll) will help you. Checking the right to opt in Staff who can opt in are: aged 16-21, or state pension age to 74 earning above £10,000 a year or aged 16-74 earning above £5,772 up to and including £10,000 a year. Staff who have previously opted out, either from being automatically enrolled or from opting in, can also opt in again. But if they’ve already asked to opt in in the last 12 months and subsequently opted out or ceased membership, it’s up to you to decide whether to enrol them. There’s no obligation to do so. Checking the right to join Staff who can join are: aged 16 to 74 Back to top What you must do If the requests are signed and the staff member still has the right to opt in or join, you must enrol them into a pension scheme. If the request isn’t signed, the staff member will need to resubmit it signed. Staff opting in You must enrol staff who have opted into a pension scheme you are using for automatic enrolment. You must usually do this within a month of receiving their request. Once in the pension scheme, they are treated the same as staff you’ve automatically enrolled which means you must pay an employer contribution. Staff joining The pension scheme you put these staff into doesn’t have to be one you use for automatic enrolment and you don’t have to pay an employer contribution unless you want to. But the scheme you put them into should still be good quality. The scheme provider will tell you the date when the staff member will go into the scheme. 
file_418.txt|
file_146.txt|Diwygio pensiynau Cymraeg Y Rheolydd Pensiynau yw rheolydd cynlluniau pensiwn yn y gwaith y DU. Cyflwynodd llywodraeth y DU y pwer i ni reoli pensiynau yn y gwaith. Ein hamcanion Mae Deddf Pensiynau 2004 a 2008 yn rhoi amcanion penodol i’r Rheolydd Pensiynau: Diogelu budd-daliadau aelodau cynlluniau pensiwn yn y gwaith Hybu gweinyddu da a gwella dealltwriaeth o gynlluniau pensiwn yn y gwaith Lleihau’r risg o sefyllfaoedd yn codi a all arwain at hawlio iawndal gan y Gronfa Diogelu Pensiynau (PPF) Mwyhau cydymffurfiant cyflogwr gyda dyletswyddau cyflogwr (gan gynnwys y gofyn i gofrestru’n awtomatig gyflogai cymwys i mewn i ddarpariaeth pensiwn cymhwysol gyda lleiafswm cyfraniad) a gyda rhai amddiffyniadau cyflogaeth. Mae ein hadran diwygio pensiynau’n dweud mwy wrthych am gofrestru’n awtomatig. Ein hymagwedd Ein rôl yw sicrhau bod pobl sy’n gyfrifol am ddarparu mynediad i ac am reoli pensiynau yn y gwaith yn cyflawni eu goblygiadau. Rydyn ni’n gweithio gydag ymddiriedolwyr, cyflogwyr, arbenigwyr pensiynau a chynghorwyr busnes gan roi arweiniad ac addysg i egluro’r hyn sy’n ddisgwyliedig ganddyn nhw a’u galluogi i gyflawni safonau uchel. Wrth gefnogi pobl i gyflawni eu cyfrifoldebau, byddwn ni’n llawdrwm ar y rhai nad sy’n parchu eu goblygiadau. Beth yw cynllun pensiwn ‘yn y gwaith’? Cynllun pensiwn yn y gwaith yw unrhyw gynllun y mae cyflogwr yn ei gynnig i gyflogai. Mae hyn yn cynnwys cynlluniau galwedigaethol, ac unrhyw gynlluniau pensiwn budd-ddeiliaid a phersonol lle mae trefniadau talu’n uniongyrchol ar gael i gyflogai. 
file_847.txt|Legal notices Legal notices Details of our legal notices, which include improvement and prohibition notices, PR13 and PR08 notices and penalty notices and final orders. Improvement notices A list of health and safety notices which allow time for the recipient to comply with the law. Prohibition notices A list of health and safety notices which prohibit an activity until remedial action has been taken. 
file_161.txt|other languages: Information about reporting side effects Medical device adverse incidents The term 'medical device' covers almost all products, except medicines, that are used in healthcare. They can be used for the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring or treatment of illness or disability. The range of products is very wide: it includes contact lenses and condoms; heart valves and hospital beds; resuscitators and radiotherapy machines; surgical instruments and syringes; wheelchairs and walking frames. An adverse incident is an event that caused, or almost caused, an injury to a patient or other person or a wrong or delayed diagnosis and treatment of a patient. Examples of problems: faulty brakes on a wheelchair a faulty ear thermometer giving a low reading a faulty batch of test strips for a blood glucose meter giving wrong readings. If your equipment has a fault you should let us know as soon as you can. If possible, keep the faulty equipment until you have contacted us. For more information go to the adverse incidents page involving medical devices on the MHRA website Defective medicines (those that are not of an acceptable quality) Defects in medicines may relate to quality issues with the product itself, the packaging, e.g. carton and blister or other packaging components such as the patient information leaflet. Yellow Card reports of defective medicines are submitted to the defective medicines report centre (DMRC).  The role of the DMRC is to minimise the hazard to patients arising from the distribution of defective medicines by providing an emergency assessment and communication system between manufacturers, distributors, regulatory authorities and users. Where a defective medicine is considered to present a risk to public health, the company or manufacturer as appropriate, is responsible for recalling any affected batch(es) or, in extreme cases, removing all batches of the product from the market.  DMRC normally supports this action by issuing a drug alert notification to healthcare professionals. Other regulators and countries may be notified of a recall by the issue of a Rapid Alert notification. If a member of the public has reason to believe that their medicine is not of an acceptable quality they should, in the first instance, consult with their doctor or a pharmacist who may then decide to refer the matter to the MHRA. Further information about defective medicines can be found on the defective medicines pages on the MHRA website Counterfeit healthcare products The MHRA makes sure that the UK has systems in place to prevent counterfeit or fake healthcare products entering the supply chain.  If counterfeit products become available, we make sure we detect counterfeits early and take action to protect the public. When medicines and medical devices are bought on the internet the source of these products is sometimes difficult to trace and it is highly unlikely that the manufacturers of these products conform to European standards of safety and effectiveness. This means there can be a significant risk of harm to the patient or person using the product. Yellow Card counterfeit reports are investigated in accordance with the terms of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 and Consumer Protection Act 1987, and associated legislation. The MHRA has statutory powers to enter business and private property to seize products suspected of being in breach of the Human Medicines Regulations. Investigations concerning counterfeits can be complex, involving networks of companies and countries, banks, international law enforcement agencies, solicitors, financial investigators, crime analysts, internet investigators, disclosure officers, test purchasers, and specialists in the use of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000. The MHRA can work with manufacturers to resolve any potential issues and problems. However, where necessary, the MHRA has the powers to take formal enforcement action against individuals and organisations. Offenders can be prosecuted under various regulations and Acts which can result in fines and often imprisonment. Civil injunctions are also given, where appropriate. Further information about counterfeits can be found on the counterfeit medicines and devices pages on the MHRA website . Blood factors and immunoglobulin products Blood factor and immunoglobulin products, such as factors I to XIII or Anti-D (RHO) immunoglobulin, are considered medicines.  Suspected side effects to these products should be reported using the Yellow Card side effect form . © Crown Copyright 2014 
file_229.txt|All herbal safety warnings and alerts 7 May 2014 MHRA is advising consumers not to use Ayurvedic herbal medicine Shwasa Sanjeevani as it has been found to contain dexamethasone, a prescription only medicine which has not been declared on the packaging. Prescription only drugs should be taken under the supervision of a healthcare professional. Side effects associated with dexamethasone include irregular heartbeat, increased blood pressure, stomach ulcer, blood disorders, skin, muscle and bone damage, and nervous system disorders. Consult with your healthcare professional before you stop using it, as sudden discontinuation of dexamethasone may cause symptoms of withdrawal. Shwasa Sanjeevani is a dark liquid in a labeled brown bottle. Indications include chronic bronchitis, allergy, wheezing asthma, coughs and colds. The liquid is manufactured by Valiyeri Vaidyasala, Kerala. A female patient visited her GP with concerns about weight gain and mild excess facial and body hair growth. The GP suspected Cushing's syndrome or Polycystic ovary syndrome and requested a blood test. The test showed very low levels of cortisol. The patient was not on any medication other than salbutamol for mild asthma. On further questioning however, she admitted to using an Indian herbal remedy Shwasa Sanjeevani for relief of asthmatic symptoms. The GP suspected that the herbal remedy may have contained a steroid-like substance, suppressing natural cortisol production. Further supporting this theory, on stopping the remedy the patient's cortisol levels returned to normal. Samples of Shwasa Sanjeevani were tested and found to contain dexamethasone, which is a prescription only medicine. Shwasa Sanjeevani is not authorised for sale in the UK. 
file_327.txt|Create reports using our NRT Portal report wizard Search for report / data Enter the report title or keyword Secondary menu 
file_196.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) Welcome to the devices industry area of the MHRA website. This section provides targeted links to information throughout the site that is relevant to manufacturers of medical devices. The MHRA is the competent authority (CA) for the UK. On behalf of the Secretary of State for Health, we administer and ensure compliance with medical device legislation in England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. The MHRA meets its CA functions in the following ways: Enforces the regulations by: investigating allegations received about possible non-compliance with the regulations operating a proactive inspection programme where manufacturers are randomly selected for inspection by MHRA's own staff. Designates UK notified bodies and audits them. Investigates post-market surveillance reports received from medical device manufacturers and users. Maintains a register of certain types of manufacturers. If you have any feedback on this section and how we can improve it please email webusability@mhra.gsi.gov.uk or fill out our feedback form . News and hot topics 
file_115.txt|Read our frequently asked questions and find out more about the Trustee toolkit. New to the toolkit? Welcome to the Trustee toolkit The free, online learning programme from The Pensions Regulator aimed at trustees of occupational pension schemes. Trustee knowledge and understanding The Trustee toolkit includes a series of online learning modules and downloadable resources developed to help you meet the minimum level of knowledge and understanding introduced in the Pensions Act 2004. You can find more information about the Trustee knowledge and understanding requirements on The Pensions Regulator’s website. Featured Watch our on-demand webinar to learn more about changes to the toolkit New pension scams action pack 
file_248.txt|Error: Page cannot be displayed Unfortunately the page you are looking for has not been found on our website. Please use the back button on your browser and try again or use our: Alternatively, you may be able to find an archived version of this page in the National Archives (external link) If you need any assistance please contact our Web Team by emailing webupdates@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Please help us improve our website by reporting technical problems using our online Technical feedback form 
file_568.txt|Our policies and approach to health and safety regulation Our policies and approach to health and safety regulation An overview of our policies and approach to health and safety regulation. Our approach We aim to ensure that the railway industry manages risks adequately, and continuously improves its health and safety performance so far as is reasonably practicable. Informed through our regular audits, inspections, investigations of incidents and handling of complaints, we are able to take an efficient risk-based approach to regulation. using our railway management maturity model (RM3) which helps to identify how well duty holders are meeting the requirements of their safety management systems; proactive inspection and audit of industry duty holders to inform RM3; monitoring health and safety performance indicators, including the assessments undertaken by other bodies, such as the Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) and the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB); providing industry advice and guidance to help duty holders comply with the law; using our powers and influence to help the industry tackle common issues, such as competence, supervision, managing change and safety awareness; and using appropriate enforcement to: ensure duty holders take immediate action to deal with serious risks; ensure duty holders meet the legal requirements; and if appropriate, ensure duty holders are held to account in the courts for any health and safety failings. Legislative framework Our work focuses on ensuring Britain's railway industry improves its health and safety culture, and has effective risk control measures, relies on having the right goal-setting health and safety law in place. We are responsible for preparing proposals for railway-specific safety regulations and for ensuring that these are accompanied by simple, clear guidance to support compliance. Most railway-specific safety law now originates from Europe and we work closely with the Department for Transport (DfT) to ensure the UK has the appropriate framework of law and meets its obligations under European requirements. We support the development of a European framework which promotes market opening, and improves railway's competitiveness, while ensuring that a robust safety regime is in place. To achieve these goals, our future priorities are: ensuring proper implementation throughout Europe of the obligations and responsibilities in the Railway Safety Directive, and ensuring practical arrangements are set up to deliver improvements envisaged in the fourth railway package; and developing cooperation arrangements between national safety authorities (NSAs) to achieve a more harmonised approach to supervision and enforcement. We have worked constructively with the European Commission and the European Railway Agency (ERA) throughout the year. Key aspects of our engagement included: working with DfT, UK stakeholders and other NSAs to influence the outcome of the 'technical pillar' of the fourth railway package and the development of a single safety certificate; promoting a coordinated approach by NSAs, and effective liaison with the European sector, on key issues in the European safety regulatory regime; taking forward the development of a common approach to post-certification supervision by NSAs and monitoring of duty holders management systems; and liaising with ERA to improve the work of the network of NSAs, and its relations with other networks of stakeholders. Fourth railway package The EU Transport Council has reached 'general approach' agreement to changes in the technical pillar of the fourth railway package, to the Railway Safety Directive, Interoperability Directive and ERA Regulation. The proposals make provision for a single safety certificate (combining the current Part A and Part B components). Applicants who operate in only one country will be able to apply for the certificate either to the NSA in that country or to ERA. Applicants operating in more than one country will apply to ERA for a certificate. These provisions are similar to those agreed for interoperability authorisations of vehicles. Further discussions, expected to start in late 2014, are needed between the European Commission, member states and the European parliament before any changes are finalised. We have worked closely with DfT, and other NSAs, on the implications of these changes and we will continue to work to ensure that practical arrangements are put in place to manage the changes. Our legislative policy work during the year included: working effectively with the Law Commissions for England & Wales and Scotland to finalise proposals, published in September 2013 , to modernise and simplify the way in which level crossing risks are governed. We also submitted evidence and assisted the Transport Select Committee inquiry on level crossings safety ; managing processes required by the train driver licensing directive, including issuing around 2,000 train driver licences and the recognition of relevant doctors, psychologists, training centres and examination centres; continuing to improve the regulatory framework for railways and to work with DfT on the Government's Red Tape Challenge. For example, we took forward a project to review, consolidate and improve three sets of out-dated rail safety law. Our consultation on this was opened on 8 July ; ensuring we have a robust process for our role as certification body for entities in charge of maintenance (ECMs) for freight wagons, and that all certificates were issued on time. We issued 32-operator's safety certificates and authorisations, of which seven were for non-mainline operators; and working closely with HSE on the reform of general health and safety legislation to ensure that the implications for railways are fully taken into account. This included input on the reform of provisions for self-employed workers and the proposed revision of construction regulations in 2014-15. Railway management maturity model We are in our third cycle of railway management maturity model (RM3) evaluations to assess operators' safety management systems. This process forms a key part of our supervision strategy and informs our reassessment of safety certificates. We continue to work with Network Rail and train operators to support their own use of RM3; to drive improvement in their risk management arrangements; and to test the effectiveness and efficiency of their risk controls. In April 2014, we published our new occupational health programme - making it happen which sets out our approach to engaging with duty holders over the next five years. We have added a new occupational health section to RM3 to support this programme. Occupational health We have worked extensively with the industry to help duty holders improve their understanding and management of occupational health issues and understand the associated costs of not managing this effectively. Our own plans for continuous improvement As an integrated safety and economic regulatory office, we are determined to support the industry's successes and enable improvement; and also improve the way we do things. For example, this year we will work with the sector to improve our RM3 model based on the findings of an independent review that we commissioned. We will also be developing plans to help us improve as an inspectorate to ensure we are fit for when the sector has progressed further in its management maturity. Taking up the safety-by-design principles mentioned earlier, the Department of Work and Pensions' Triennial Review of the Health and Safety Executive (HSE), which concluded in January 2014 , recommended that HSE liaise with ORR on the design aspects of major railway infrastructure development projects. We already liaise closely on the construction of London's Crossrail project and we have formed a dedicated group to work closely with the HSE's construction team over the design aspects of the High Speed 2 project. The safety of the Channel Tunnel We provide the UK secretariat for the bi-national Channel Tunnel Intergovernmental Commission (IGC) and the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority (CTSA). In addition we provide representatives to both bodies and other expert assistance, including policy expertise and inspectors. With the co-operation of our French IGC and CTSA colleagues and Eurotunnel, we aim to regulate the tunnel in the same way we regulate the rest of Britain's railway infrastructure. We believe this will help the UK and French governments to ensure the Tunnel's good safety record is maintained, while delivering benefits in terms of greater competition through new operators and services. Our inspectors are appointed to lead and deliver CTSA's inspection plan, which aim to provide assurance that Eurotunnel and train operators' management systems are capable of managing the specific risks associated with the operation of the Channel Tunnel. In turn, what we learnt from this activity informed our consideration of Eurotunnel's application to renew its authorisation as infrastructure manager of the Channel Tunnel – which the IGC granted them in April 2014. Our inspection work this year focused on: Eurotunnel's approach to change management and risk analysis; monitoring the transition to a new, private provider of "first line of response" emergency services in France; Eurotunnel's strategy for maintenance of its fleet of locomotives and vehicles; DB Schenker's systems for maintaining the Tunnel-specific competence of its employees; and Eurotunnel's revised approach to managing re-railing works in the Tunnel, following some incidents in January 2014 where track workers were exposed to elevated levels of carbon monoxide. Our officials continue to drive improvements to the Tunnel's regulatory framework, and to the pace and transparency of IGC's safety regulatory activity. In this area, key achievements in 2013-14, included: publication of a clear set of technical rules for railway vehicles using the Tunnel, which is already allowing manufacturers and train operators to get their equipment authorised; and adoption of a risk-based strategy for safety supervision (inspection), which aligns with European better regulation requirements. We delivered a well-attended frank and open stakeholder conference in March 2014, about IGC's approach which provided useful intelligence to plan our work in future.. Last updated - 28 August 2014 
file_387.txt|
file_739.txt|First state of play meeting with the party after initial review of the evidence 14 November (actual) Investigation: further information requests and on-going analysis November 2013 - May 2014 (actual) First decision point: to proceed with our investigation May 2014 (actual) Second state of play meeting with the party May 2014 (actual) Investigation: further potential information requests and analysis May 2014 - January 2015 (estimate) Second decision point on (i) to proceed (ii) to close case on admin priority grounds (iii) move to a no grounds for action decision January 2015 (estimate) Third state of play meeting with the party January 2015 (estimate) Investigation: further potential analysis following third state of play meeting February 2015 (estimate) March 2015 - April 2015 (estimate) Investigation outcome (issue of Statement of Objections) May 2015 (estimate) 
file_158.txt|Still unsure? Call us on 020 3080 6000. We cannot give you medical advice. If you are worried about your health: Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse Call the NHS NHS 111 in England and Scotland on 111 (textphone 18001 111) NHS Direct Wales/Galw IECHYD Cymru on 0845 46 47 (textphone 0845 606 46 47) Always read the patient information leaflet, or instruction supplied with your medicine or medical device. It lists the known side effects or problems and advises you on what to do. Welcome to the MHRA's new reporting site The Yellow Card Scheme now supports the reporting of all suspected problems or incidents to all healthcare products, not just suspected side effects to medicines If you would like to comment on our website or report a technical problem please contact us Already Registered? If you have already registered with this site, please login. Login 
file_221.txt|4.5G 07 Apr 2014 GlaxoSmithKline UK is recalling the above batches of Zovirax Eye Ointment as a precaution because the batches of pharmaceutical ingredient used in their manufacture were found to contain metal particles which were outside the upper specification limit for particle size. No complaints or adverse reaction reports relating to this issue have been received by the company to date. Remaining stocks of the above batches should be quarantined and returned to the original supplier for credit. For enquiries relating to stock return please contact your original supplier. There are no alternative batches of this product currently available and we understand that shortages are already being reported. Please find attached a copy of a Memo from UK Medical information (UKMI) (249Kb) advising on the availability of alternative therapies for the treatment of herpes simplex keratitis. For medical information enquiries please contact GlaxoSmithKline Medical Information, tel: 0800 221 441 email: ukmedinfo@gsk.com . Recipients of this Drug Alert should bring it to the attention of relevant contacts by copy of this letter. Local area teams are asked to forward this to relevant clinics, general practitioners and community pharmacists. Yours faithfully 
file_149.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Updates to The Pensions Regulator's website The pensions landscape and the use of technology has changed considerably over the past few years so it’s essential that our website continues to evolve. Site updates In response to these changes we've updated the site to provide you with a consistent experience of our website – whether you’re viewing it on a desktop, tablet or mobile device. Changes to audience sections We've retained the main audience sections on the website for employers, business advisers and trustees. The name of the pension professionals area has changed to ‘business advisers’ in recognition of the wide range of users accessing our site since the start of automatic enrolment. Updated navigation The navigation includes new menus that signpost you directly to content in each of our main audience sections. There's a featured items section on the right hand side which highlights some of the most recent information. New footer Much of the content from the top navigation header – including information about what we do, how we regulate, contact details, glossary, and the press room – has moved to the footer menu. The Exchange login and public services content has moved to a new navigation bar situated just above the footer – which also contains links to information on automatic enrolment and the Trustee toolkit. This content is available no matter what page you’re on. Let us know what you think We value your feedback. If you have any comments on our new website design please let us know using our web enquiry form . Share this page using: 
file_73.txt|Closing a scheme Reporting and regulatory duties Use our Exchange online service to register new schemes and submit information to us. Understand how to identify pension liberation fraud and what to do if you suspect it. Information and resources to help independent financial advisers (IFAs), pension providers and administrators identify potential pension scams and what they need to do if they suspect them. See related content in the trustees' section Information to help you complete scheme returns for defined contribution, defined benefit and hybrid pension schemes. Share this page using: 
file_504.txt|Transparency programme ORR's transparency programme has three elements: Maintaining and improving our own data release and reporting programme to ensure high quality information is made public on rail finances, performance, usage and safety Promoting greater access to and use of ORR data by all stakeholders Working with the industry to promote greater transparency across the sector The majority of ORR's data release comes through its Data portal . We also produce several statistical releases , which provide more context around the data, which are published on our website: Passenger and freight rail performance – released quarterly Passenger rail usage –released quarterly Freight rail usage – released quarterly Passenger rail service satisfaction – released quarterly Regional usage – released annually Key safety statistics 2013-14 – released annually Rail finance 2013-14 – released annually Rail infrastructure, assets and environmental 2013-14 – released annually Quarterly Network Rail Monitor showing how the company is performing against its performance and financial targets Annual efficiency and finance assessment of Network Rail – showing how the company is delivering against its efficiency targets Annual report to Network Rail's remuneration committee on financial and operating performance to inform their decisions on executive bonuses Insert link Great Britain's rail industry financial information providing definitive information about the industry's value for money for its funders, both passengers and the taxpayer. This is what we are going to release in future In the year ahead, ORR will also publish some new reports. These will include: Report on train operating company customer engagement Report on customer compensation Report on train operating company costs As we move into a new five-year investment period for Network Rail, we will also improve the information we publish on Network Rail's performance. For example, our regular Network Rail Monitor will carry more disaggregated information so that it stakeholders can see more clearly how the company is performing at route level. We'll also publish an annual whole industry scorecard and report so that the public can see clearly how the whole sector is working. We're now working with Network Rail on the data tables for its delivery plan, which will cover all the measures specified by ORR's determination. To receive more information on ORR reports, register for our news by email service . More information for customers Train operating companies already produce a wide range of information for their customers, particularly on journey times and disruption. They are making increasing use of social media to reach a wider audience. However, we want them to do more. We want the industry to publish right time train information (when trains actually arrive) at a level of detail which meets customer expectations and which shows a true picture of punctuality. We'd also like more information on delay causation so that passengers can better understand the reasons why things sometime go wrong. Where this is not provided by the industry, ORR will consider publishing the data itself. There is also more that could be done on real time information. This is data which shows the probability of a particular service being late and allows passengers to make informed choices when planning their travel. We want the industry to allow access to its data on real time train information and believe that third party developers, with access to this data, will be able to provide products enabling passengers to plan their journey with much greater certainty. 
file_254.txt|The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Withdrawal of a Clinical Trial Authorisation Applicants may withdraw their request for a Clinical Trial Authorisation (CTA) at any point prior to the MHRA having reached a decision on authorisation. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this What to send 
file_74.txt|Reporting and registering Understand what information you need to report to the regulator and how to report it. You and your clients can share important information with the regulator using our online service Exchange. Find out how to report breaches of the law to the regulator and raise concerns with us inside and outside of your statutory or professional obligations. This is also known as whistleblowing. On this page Whistleblowing Sharing information with the regulator Use our online service Exchange to share information with us about your clients' schemes - register a new scheme, submit a scheme return, report material payment failures, pay the levy, report a breach of law or notifiable event, submit a recovery plan. For information on why, when and how you need to register your scheme with the regulator go to registering new schemes . If you need help completing your scheme return for a defined contribution (DC), defined benefit (DB) or hybrid pension scheme go to scheme return . For information about the levy and how to pay it go to levy . Back to top Reporting breaches of the law (statutory whistleblowing) If you have a statutory duty to report to us see our code of practice on reporting breaches of the law and related guidance below for information on how and when to report. Back to top Whistleblowing You may have concerns that need to be raised with us outside of your statutory or professional obligations. This could include circumstances where you are concerned about the conduct of the company you work for. See below for details on how to report your concern using our whistleblowing service. Online service Whistleblowing form Use our online whistleblowing form to report a concern about a work-based pension scheme. Alternatively, you can email us with details of your concern at wb@tpr.gov.uk or call us on 0845 600 7060. Will my identity become known? We understand that when you supply information to us it may have a potential impact on the relationship between you and those you are reporting, particularly in the case of a worker and their employer. You can always choose to be anonymous when reporting concerns to us so no one will know your identity. However, it is useful to have your contact details in case we need to ask you for more information while we investigate your concerns. There is whistleblowing protection under the Employment Rights Act 1996 which protects most employees if they raise a concern about wrongdoing – either internally or with a regulator. Will my identity be protected if I report a concern? We will do our best to protect your identity (if desired) and will not disclose it except where lawfully required to do so. We will take all reasonable steps to maintain confidentiality but we cannot give any categorical assurances as circumstances may mean that disclosure of your identity becomes unavoidable – for example if we are ordered by a court to disclose it. What happens after I report a concern? After you report your concern to us we will start making some initial inquires and we may contact you to clarify information (if you provide your contact details). We do not encourage you to try and get any new information. If appropriate, we will refer your concern internally for investigation. However, due to legal restrictions we’re unable to provide you with any feedback about our investigation. If you’re reporting an employer or third party we’ll ensure you have a designated point of contact and any witnesses are supported throughout any enforcement process. 
file_241.txt|Home Committees Medicines advisory bodies Medicines advisory bodies The medicines advisory bodies were introduced under the Medicines Act 1968. They provide advice to Ministers (who are the Licensing Authority) on aspects of medicines regulation. Latest Committee documents for medicines 10 Oct 2014 ~ Commission on Human Medicines minutes - 17 and 18 July 2014 (50Kb) Summary minutes of the meeting of the Commission on Human Medicines held on 17 and 18 July 2014. (27Kb) Summary of the minutes of the Pharmacovigilance Expert Advisory Group meeting on 1 October 2014. 23 Sep 2014 ~ Advisory Board on the Registration of Homeopathic Products and and Herbal Medicines Advisory Committee - Annual Reports 2013 (847Kb) 2013 annual report of Advisory Board on the Registration of Homeopathic Products (ABRHP) and Herbal Medicines Advisory Committee (HMAC) 
file_61.txt|Detailed guidance Key points Ensure that your clients’ defined contribution (DC) schemes have an appropriate investment strategy and offer suitable investment options. Ensure your clients monitor and review that the investment options continue to be suitable for members and meet their objectives. Ensure there are measures in place to protect scheme assets. Setting investment strategy Ensure that your clients’ schemes: have an appropriate investment strategy and investment objectives, including a statement of investment principles offer a default strategy for members who don’t want to choose their own investments offer suitable investment options for members who want to make their own decisions communicate regularly with members about their investment choices – for more information about providing good quality communications, see member communication . Providing investment funds If you’re responsible for advising trustees on their choice of funds, you should ensure your clients devote sufficient time to: understanding the objectives of each investment fund understanding fund costs and charges documenting information about fund objectives, costs and charges communicating fund information to members ensuring the number and risk profile of funds offered as an alternative to the default strategy meets the needs of the membership. You should obtain enough information from investment managers so that you’re satisfied your clients can demonstrate that they’ve understood the issues above and factored them into their solution and range of products. Back to top Reviewing investment strategy and fund performance Your clients may ask you to help monitor and review that the default strategy and other investment options continue to be suitable for all members (including deferred). You should also check that all investment options meet their investment objectives. Your clients should review the default strategy when certain events occur, eg changes to the membership demographics or sustained changes in market conditions. Your clients should decide how often to review each investment fund and the type of review. They should base their decision on factors such as size, value and type of fund. They should consider setting mechanical triggers, eg to identify whether a fund is underperforming against its benchmark. They should make sure triggers are appropriate to the long-term nature of pension scheme investments. You should advise them to: assess fund performance against objectives compare fund returns to industry benchmarks check that fund fees are competitive monitor levels of portfolio turnover ensure there are controls to alert them to potential risks ensure they assess regularly the investment decision-making and governance process. If the trustees (using your advice) decide to change investment funds or investment manager, you need to consider the most suitable transition option. Protecting scheme assets Ensure that your clients’ schemes: invest predominantly in assets regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority or a similar overseas regulatory authority assess the compensation and protection arrangements for the scheme’s investment funds and products consider mitigation, eg insurance or financial guarantees, if investments with inadequate protection are kept balance the risks associated with illiquid assets with their potential for higher investment returns. Back to top Detailed guidance Investment section of the DC code : provides guidance on setting investment strategy, reviewing fund performance and protecting scheme assets. 
file_752.txt|Access for freight operators Access for freight operators The documents contained below provide guidance and the application form for track access by freight operators. Industry standard Model Contracts are included as well as details of General Approvals for track access and ports and terminals which cover situations where you may enter or amend contracts without needing to apply to us for specific approval. Potential new entrants to the market should familiarise themselves with our Starting Mainline Rail Operations pdf icon PDF, 455 Kb document. We advise all applicants to use our model contracts, provided below. For international passenger operators wishing to apply for access to operate cross-border services, we have produced guidance on the assessment of new international passenger services pdf icon PDF, 345 Kb . If you have any questions, please contact us . Application form Applicants should use a Form F application form for all applications under sections 17-22A. The form is available below in Word and PDF format: PDF version pdf icon PDF, 84 Kb Model contracts Applicants are advised to begin with the freight model contract. Further guidance on this can be found in our C&Ps document above. Model freight track access contract - August 2014 pdf icon PDF, 1,484 Kb Freight general approvals We have powers under sections 18 and 22 of the Act to grant general approvals. The current freight general approvals are listed below: The Freight Access (Track Access Contracts) General Approval 2012 pdf icon PDF, 353 Kb : enables Network Rail and a freight operator to enter into a track access contract for up to 5 years and which may contain firm access rights for a 2 year period; permits Network Rail and the train operator to amend to their track access agreement, subject to certain conditions without our specific approval. Any amendments beyond those permitted will require our specific approval under section 22 or directions under section 22A of the Act; enables Network Rail and freight customers to enter into a freight customer track access contract which may contain certain firm access rights for a limited 2 year period; Network Rail and a freight operator (nominated by a freight customer) to enter into a freight customer specific track access contract for freight operators; and enables freight operator and Network Rail to make certain changes to the freight operator's existing track access contract relating to liability necessary where the freight operator has entered into a freight customer-specific track access contract for freight operators. The Freight Facility (Ports and Terminals) General Approval 2011 pdf icon PDF, 180 Kb enables port and terminal facility owners and their access beneficiaries to enter into 'approved' access contracts at those facilities under certain circumstances. Potential applicants should read the associated covering letter pdf icon PDF, 179 Kb . For previous policy decisions and workstreams, please see the policy and document archive . For previous access application decisions, please see our decisions library or, for decisions in the last six months, the relevant decisions page. Last updated - 13 November 2014 
file_478.txt|The European Railway Agency The European Railway Agency The European Railway Agency (ERA) was set up to develop procedures within the framework of railway safety and interoperability. It is responsible for contributing to the implementation of European Community legislation aimed at supporting a competitive, open market for rail. This is done in two ways: By enhancing the level of interoperability of railway systems; and By developing a common approach to safety on the European railway system. The Agency does this by issuing recommendations and opinions to the European Commission and, in the case of opinions, to Member States. The Agency liaises with member state National Safety Authorities (NSAs), including holding 4 network meetings a year, and organises topic specific working groups, to form these recommendations. As an NSA, ORR has a duty to authorise, and in the case of rolling stock keep a register of, new and changed components of the railway, ensuring relevant technical specifications for interoperability (TSIs) are met. We are also required to develop a safety regulatory framework, including a system of national safety rules, and to produce an annual safety report to ERA. Cross-audit of ORR We have been audited by other National Safety Authorities and ERA as part of the pilot phase of the European cross-audit programme. The purpose of the cross audit was to evaluate the delivery of our responsibilities under the European safety and interoperability directives and to find examples of best practice or difficulties in applying the requirements. The final report pdf icon PDF, 285 Kb , published in January 2013, included a number of recommendations made by the audit team. Our response is summarised in the improvement plan pdf icon PDF, 106 Kb . Information centre ERA acts as an information centre for the development of safety on the railways. It holds a public database of relevant documents and every two years publishes a report on the development of railway safety. It will support the national bodies in their cooperation to further harmonise NSA decision-making principles and investigation methods. Integration-cooperation ERA works closely with all the stakeholders of the rail sector to develop its proposals. Working groups have been established to allow for a wide consensus on the new approaches to be reached. The aim of all these activities is to contribute to the creation of an integrated European railway where the rail transport mode can realise its inherent competitive advantages. ORR participates in the International Liaison Group of Government Railway Inspectors (ILGGRI). Established in 1997, ILGGRI provides an informal platform for contact between European railway inspectorates and their representatives. Last updated - 22 September 2014 
file_100.txt|Independent trustee register Quality assurance Check the quality of the defined contribution scheme you run so that you can demonstrate to employers and scheme members that you’re running a scheme which is more likely to deliver good retirement outcomes. If you run a multi-employer scheme (known as a ‘master trust’) you should get your scheme independently assured. 
file_691.txt|Efficiency and finance assessment Efficiency and finance assessment of Network Rail This document provides our Efficiency and financial assessment of Network Rail for 2013-14 pdf icon PDF, 2,430 Kb , the fifth year of control period 4 (CP4). Our annual assessments are intended to help customers, funders and other interested parties gain a better understanding of Network Rail's financial performance compared with the CP4 financial assumptions that we set out in our PR08 determination of Network Rail's access charges. Our assessments provide a snapshot based on the best available information at a point in time. This 2014 publication covers the final year of CP4, April 2013 to March 2014 as well as CP4 as a whole and separately covers Great Britain, England & Wales and Scotland. It contains information and commentary on Network Rail's expenditure and its efficiency compared to our PR08 determination, its income, regulatory asset base (RAB), debt, financing costs and financial indicators. Our assessment underpins the calculation of whether payments are due to passenger and freight operating companies under the Efficiency Benefit Sharing Mechanism (EBSM), which provided train operators with an incentive to help improve Network Rail's efficiency in return for a share of any resulting savings. We also assess the value of Network Rail's RAB, because the RAB reflects the extent to which Network Rail has spent money to renew or improve its network as well as other adjustments in accordance with our PR08 determination. We also monitor Network Rail's operational performance, including in respect of safety risk, train performance, asset performance and planning. These assessments were included in our 2014 health and safety report and our 2013-14 Q4 Network Rail Monitor publication. Monitoring operational performance is important in helping us to verify that Network Rail has delivered its obligations in return for the money it has received from train operators and the governments, and that it only retains the benefit of the savings that it has genuinely achieved, which is the focus of this document. The information contained within this document has been compiled from Network Rail's 2013-14 regulatory and statutory financial statements, our PR08 determination, Network Rail's 2009 delivery plan (DP09) for CP4 and updates to that plan, and the conclusions of independent reporters and other sources as specified. We have also published data on Network Rail's historic income and expenditure 2014 . Previous assessments Annual efficiency and finance assessment of Network Rail 2012-13 pdf icon PDF, 1,532 Kb and annex to the 2013 report 12 Sep 2013 
file_851.txt|Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd I/20121220/JSM This followed an incident in March 2012 when a NR contractor received an electric shock from a signalling location cabinet which had not been earthed or bonded. The incident occurred in Huncoat, Lancashire on the LNW route, and is the second time in a year that this has happened at the same location. As a result, a National Notice has been served as we believe there may be thousands of cabinets of a similar age and construction across Network Rail infrastructure, which are not earthed and bonded and/or where inadvertent contact with live conductors is foreseeable. The notice requires Network Rail to undertake a review of 650V signalling equipment to establish the scale of the problem, to develop an action plan for remedying any deficiencies found, to design and implement a safe system of work and to undertake a review of resource available to implement the action plan. 20 Dec 2012 
file_239.txt|(64Kb) These Regulations implement  the requirements of the following EU Directives: Directive 2002/98/EC – setting standards of quality and safety for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components Directive 2004/33/EC – regarding certain technical requirements for blood and blood component. Two further technical Directives were adopted by the European Commission on 30 September 2005. These are: Directive 2005/61/EC regarding traceability requirements and notification of serious adverse reactions and events Directive  2005/62/EC regarding Community standards and specifications relating to a quality system for blood establishments. These Directives were transposed into UK legislation by the Blood Safety and Quality (Amendment) Regulations 2006 No. 2013 (external link), which came into force on 31 August 2006. The Blood Safety and Quality Regulations apply to blood establishments and to hospital blood banks. The 2006 Amendment Regulations introduce requirements for a quality system in blood establishments and hospital blood banks. They also extend traceability and record-keeping requirements to “facilities” which may receive blood and blood components (care homes, independent clinics, hospitals and other NHS facilities and services, manufacturers of medicines and medical devices and biomedical research institutes). The Blood Safety and Quality (Fees Amendments) Regulations 2010 SI 554 - SI 2010/554 (external link) came into force on 1 April 2010 and implemented fee amendments. How does a manufacturer comply with the requirements? As of 8 November 2005, blood establishments are required to: submit an application for a blood establishment authorisation maintain a quality system based on the principles of good practice notify the competent authority of any serious adverse events and serious adverse reactions  (haemovigilance /SABRE) ensure that all prospective donors of blood and blood components comply with the Regulations maintain records to ensure full traceability from donation to the point of delivery  for no less than 30 years be subject to an inspection from the competent authority at least once every two years. Hospital blood banks are required to: if they collect autologous blood and blood components submit an application for a blood establishment authorisation if they perform secondary processing of blood component (for example, irradiation, washing, splitting etc.) submit an application for a blood establishment authorisation maintain a quality system based on the requirements of Directive 2005/62/EC notify the competent authority of any serious adverse events and serious adverse reactions  (haemovigilance /SABRE) confirm compliance with the requirements of the directives by submitting an annual compliance report to the competent authority maintain records to ensure full traceability from donation to the point of delivery for not less than 30 years. Further guidance is available on the UK Blood Transfusion & Tissue Transplantation Services site (external link) Application form and guidance notes for a blood establishment authorisation 
file_41.txt|Find out your staging date Introduction Your staging date is set in law as of 1 April 2012 and is the date your automatic enrolment duties come into effect for you. You must be prepared for this date. Youll need your PAYE reference to find out your staging date. If you dont know your PAYE reference, it can be found on a P6/P9 coding notice or on your white payslip booklet P30BC. If you dont pay your staff through a PAYE scheme, your staging date will be 1 April 2017. I do not have my PAYE reference I have my PAYE reference: Step 1: Enter your PAYE referencePAYE reference If you use more than one PAYE scheme, enter the reference of each one into the tool. You'll get a staging date for each one and your staging date is whichever is the earliest. : / Tip: An example of a PAYE reference is 913 / WZ5121A. In this example you'd enter '913' and 'WZ5121A'. Take care not to confuse numbers with letters; zero and the letter 'O' look very similar! Step 2: Enter the words/digits displayed below and then select 'Show my staging date' Tip: If you can't see the words/digits select the 'Get a new challenge' icon ( ) above to refresh what's displayed. I do not have my PAYE reference: If you don't have your PAYE reference to hand we can send you a reminder email to ensure you come back to find out your staging date. Send me a reminder email Important note Some small employers can move their staging date to a later date than that determined on 1 April 2012 if, at that time, they had fewer than 50 staff and were part of a PAYE scheme of more than 50 people. Find out more about modified staging dates. This tool is designed for employers with only one Pay As You Earn (PAYE) scheme. In some cases there are exceptions to the information provided by the tool and you will need to make some additional checks. It remains your responsibility, as the employer, to correctly identify your own staging date. If you have staff in more than one PAYE scheme, you'll need to enter the details of each PAYE scheme into the tool. Your staging date will be the date that's earliest. This will be the case even if the majority of your staff are not in that PAYE scheme. Read exceptions on the information provided by the tool. The staging date is determined by the size of an employer's PAYE scheme based on the number of persons within that scheme. The number of persons in a scheme is wholly derived from the latest information from HM Revenue and Customs held by the regulator on 1 April 2012. Bookmark this page using: 
file_670.txt|EC4T transmission losses (AC & DC) estimate review pdf icon PDF, 1,000 Kb , report by AMCL, December 2012 Dec 2012 Reduction in Schedule 4 and Schedule 8 payment rates - analysis of Incentive and financial effects pdf icon PDF, 608 Kb , report by Steer Davies Gleave Nov 2012 Review of Network Rail Vehicle Track Interaction Strategic Model (VTISM) modelling and allocation to market segments for Freight Avoidable Costs pdf icon PDF, 197 Kb - report by Arup Nov 2012 The impact of changes in access charges on the demand for coal: update to NERA May 2012 assessment pdf icon PDF, 90 Kb Oct 2012 Operating Strategy Programme - Management Case Review - RM3 Evaluation of the capability of Network Rail to deliver its Operating Strategy Programme pdf icon PDF, 605 Kb Sep 2012 
file_170.txt|If you are registering as a healthcare professional, please fill in the 'registration type' as healthcare professional. Â© Crown Copyright 2014 
file_540.txt|Entities in charge of maintenance Entities in charge of maintenance This page gives an overview of the requirements for a person or organisation responsible for the maintenance of rail vehicles (known as an entity in charge of maintenance). The Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS) were amended by: the Railways and Other Guided Transport System (Safety) (Amendment) Regulations 2011; and the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2013. The amendments are mainly concerned with: assigning an 'entity in charge of maintenance' (ECM) to a railway vehicle and making sure that the entity in charge of maintenance is registered on the national vehicle register (NVR); introducing a formal maintenance system for an entity in charge of maintenance to make sure that the rail vehicles it is responsible for are safely maintained; and if the vehicle is a freight wagon, the ECM must obtain an ECM certificate. Our guidance, A Guide to ROGS pdf icon PDF, 795 Kb , has been amended to include a new chapter (Chapter 8) on entities in charge of maintenance. What are the requirements? Regulation 18A of ROGS requires that no person may place in service or use a vehicle on the mainline railway unless that vehicle has an entity in charge of maintenance (ECM) assigned to it, and that entity in charge of maintenance is registered as such in the National Vehicle Register. For example, a Train Operating Company leasing passenger wagons has to make sure that there is an ECM registered against the wagons in the NVR before it begins to haul the wagons. Each ECM has to ensure that, through a system of maintenance, a vehicle for which is it responsible is safe to run on the mainline railway. The system of maintenance is the maintenance of a vehicle in accordance with: the maintenance file for that vehicle; applicable maintenance rules; and applicable Technical Specifications for Interoperability. If the vehicle is a freight wagon the ECM must obtain an ECM certificate. All ECMs must comply with the CSM for Monitoring (Commission Regulation (EU) 1078/2012).  ECMs for freight wagons must also comply with the CSM for risk evaluation and assessment. What vehicles does regulation 18A apply to? Regulation 18A of ROGS applies to all vehicles on the mainline railway. So, that includes freight wagons, passenger rolling stock, locomotives, etc. Further guidance on regulation 18A of ROGS can be found in the Rail Guidance Document pdf icon PDF, 589 Kb . Do I need an ECM certificate? If you are an ECM for vehicles other than freight wagons, you will not need an ECM certificate until such time as the European Commission has reviewed the certification system for freight wagons and a decision has been made to put a measure in place. Article 14a(5) of the 2004 European Railway Safety Directive requires that the European Commission does the review by 24 December 2018, but the Commission has suggested an earlier review in the Fourth Railway Package proposals. If you are an ECM for freight wagons you will need to obtain an ECM certificate from a certification body in accordance with the system of certification for freight wagons. What is the system of certification for freight wagons? The European Commission has adopted Regulation EU/445/2011 (the ECM Regulation) on a system of certification for ECMs for freight wagons. This applies to any ECM for freight wagons to be used on the EU railway network. The ECM Regulation is directly applicable in all EU Member States. The purpose of the system of certification is to provide evidence that an ECM has established its maintenance system and can meet the requirements set out in the ECM Regulation. If I am an ECM for freight wagons, how do I apply for a certificate? An ECM responsible for freight wagons can apply to ORR for a certificate. The ECM can also apply to a certification body accredited, either by the United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS) or by a National Accreditation Body in another Member State, to carry out this work. A list of certification bodies can be found on ERADIS . ORR as a certification body ORR has produced A summary guide for applicants pdf icon PDF, 202 Kb , for those who wish to apply to us for an ECM certificate. This briefly explains how to make an application ( DOC 82 Kb). We have also produced an Assessment criteria and guidance manual pdf icon PDF, 2,878 Kb , which provides ORR inspectors with advice and guidance on how to assess applications for a certificate. An additional document: Engineering plans for ECM certificates pdf icon PDF, 1,131 Kb , which accompanies the assessment criteria and guidance manual, is a tool to provide consistency when inspectors assess applications against Annex III of the ECM Regulation. Applicants may also find these documents useful for providing evidence to support their application doc icon DOC, 82 Kb . Where can I find ECM certificates issued by ORR? The list of ECM certificates issued by us contains dates of issue plus links to the certificates.  All ECM certificates issued across the European Union can be found on ERADIS . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_26.txt|Closing a scheme Automatically enrolling your staff You’ll need to automatically enrol your staff into the pension scheme you’ve chosen. The process you must follow is set out in law. You must provide the pension scheme with certain information about your staff. You’ll also need to write to your staff to tell them they’ve been automatically enrolled. You must do all this within certain time frames. On this page Detailed guidance Key points You automatically enrol staff by giving the pension scheme information about them so the scheme can make them active members. The scheme must make staff active members within six weeks of them first becoming eligible for automatic enrolment. Contributions are due from the date the staff member first becomes eligible. You must write to staff to tell them you’ve automatically enrolled them. When to automatically enrol You must make eligible staff active members of your pension scheme within a six week period that starts on the date your staff member first becomes eligible for automatic enrolment. This could be: your staging date the day after their postponement period ends their first day of employment their 22nd birthday when they start earning over £10,000. Your business software should be set up to alert you if someone becomes eligible for automatic enrolment. If someone with a right to opt in to your pension scheme asks to do so, you must enrol them following the same process as for automatic enrolment. Back to top How to automatically enrol You make eligible staff members of your pension scheme by providing the scheme (or trustee) with all the information they need to make your staff active members. You’ll need to provide this information before the end of the six week period described above. Some information that you’ll need to provide is required by law. This includes things like the staff member’s name, postal address, date of birth and National Insurance number. You’ll need to provide this information in writing, which can include email. Back to top When scheme membership must start After you’ve given the information to your pension scheme about the member of staff you’re automatically enrolling, the scheme will take a few days to make them an active member. Active scheme membership must take effect from the date they first became eligible for automatic enrolment, as described in ‘when to automatically enrol’, above. This means that contributions will be due and you must calculate them from that date. Back to top Writing to the staff you're automatically enrolling Before the end of the six week period after staff first become eligible for automatic enrolment, you must write to everyone you’ve automatically enrolled about the scheme, the contribution rates and about their right to opt out. 
file_742.txt|NTM Sales NTM Sales The outcome of our investigation under the Competition Act 1998 in 2004-2005 into a complaint by NTM Sales and Marketing Ltd (NTM). We decided that there are no grounds for action under the Chapter I prohibition of the Competition Act 1998 and Article 81 of the EC Treaty against Portec Rail Products (UK) Ltd (Portec) and RS Clare and Company Ltd pdf icon PDF, 923 Kb (Clare). We have also decided, in respect of Portec, that there are no grounds for action under the Chapter II prohibition of the Competition Act   1998 and Article 82 of the EC Treaty. Our decision follows its investigation into a complaint by NTM Sales and Marketing Ltd (NTM), made on 20 July 2004, that Portec had attempted to use a dominant position in the market for the supply of testing services for grease for use in electric trackside lubricators to foreclose the market for   the supply of grease for use in electric trackside lubricators to NTM. Although we did not rule out that Portec may be dominant in this market, it did not find sufficient evidence to conclude that Portec had abused a dominant position or that it had entered into any anti-competitive agreements or practices with Clare. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_805.txt|Third party liability insurance notifications Our approach to third party liability insurance requirements for operators. We do not conduct individual approval of operator third party liability insurance arrangements where these comply with our general approval pdf icon PDF, 77 Kb . Operators' insurance brokers should send us confirmation that adequate insurance cover is in place, in line with the general approval. To do this: please complete the Broker's Confirmation letter doc icon DOC, 85 Kb ; then forward to the Licensing and network regulation team every time an insurance policy is renewed. The broker letter for Network Rail pdf icon PDF, 102 Kb is available, as well as the confirmation of cover for contractors pdf icon PDF, 200 Kb . Contact the Licensing and network regulation team for copies of broker letters for any other individual operators. We have granted some individual variations to the general approval. These are: 
file_602.txt|Health and safety guidance and research This section contains policies and guidance related to health and safety regulation. Our role is to provide advice and enforce the relevant health and safety legislation. As well as the provision of onsite advice given by our inspectors, we can also provide written advice and guidance on how to comply with the law. Occupational health guidance Advice and guidance on occupational health matters for railway employers and employees. Worker safety Guidance on worker safety includes: managing contractors, fatigue, and working with asbestos. Infrastructure safety Guidance on infrastructure safety includes: level crossings, signals passed at danger, train protection, road/rail interface, rolling stock and route crime. Passenger safety Guidance on passenger safety includes station safety and crowding on trains. Risk management A range of risk management documents. Tramway technical guidance The technical guidance notes that issued by us with the initial intention of addressing the immediate lack of specific standards that apply to the design, construction and operation of UK tramways. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_603.txt|This section includes advice and guidance on occupational health matters for railway employers and employees. Advice and guidance on workplace health Details of some of the guidance, advice and help available to employers and employees who need help on health issues. Managing work related stress in the railway industry An overview of ORR's strategy on managing work related stress in the rail industry. Rail manager competence on occupational health Overview of why and how the rail industry should improve the competence of its managers on health, with links to more detailed advice and supporting resources. Health case studies Case studies that show examples of good practice in managing railway workers. Occupational cancers Occupational cancer leads to a significant number of deaths in the UK each year and this page provides advice and guidance on how the risks can be controlled and exposure to carcinogens minimised. Last updated - 7 November 2014 
file_946.txt|About ONR The Office for Nuclear Regulation is responsible for regulation of nuclear safety and security across the UK. Our mission is to provide efficient and effective regulation of the nuclear industry, holding it to account on behalf of the public. 
file_487.txt|Consumer expert panel Consumer expert panel We protect and promote the interests of those using and funding Britain's railways. Our consumer expert panel provides independent advice to help us fulfil our role as the railways' safety, economic consumer and competition regulator. What's the role and purpose of the expert panel? The independent panel will help us ensure our policies and decisions benefit from a sound understanding of consumers and are effective in delivering positive change for rail users. The panel is advisory, helping us to deliver better outcomes for rail consumers by examining or assessing policy or regulation and advising us on consumer interests or issues. The panel's wide range of experience and expertise will help us to understand the issues affecting consumers in other regulated sectors and the wider economy. The panel will complement existing relationships with organisations representing consumers' interests. How is the panel organised? The panel will meet four times a year to review and discuss issues raised by us or proposed by the panel members. Members are invited for a two year term. Membership may change to ensure a range of expertise relevant to our role and developments in Britain's railways. Agendas and other papers will be available on this page. What will the panel do? The panel can review, challenge and advise on our business planning, regulatory policies, policy development, impact assessment and research agenda to help us develop clear and robust evidence of consumer outcomes in rail. The panel members The individual members of our panel bring a range of academic, advocacy, consumer research and commercial expertise to support the institutional members' expertise with rail and transport. Individual members currently include: Professor Catherine Waddams, Professor of Regulation at the University of East Anglia and founding Director of the ESRC Centre for Competition Policy. Catherine is particularly interested in the distributional impact of regulatory reform and the role of consumer choice in making markets work well. Rob Sheldon, Managing Director, Accent. Rob has over 30 years experience in market research, primarily in the public and service sectors - transport, utilities, communications, finance, healthcare and education. Nicola Munro was a Board member of Consumer Focus Scotland from 2008 and has led work on health, environment, transport, housing, planning, third sector, equality and anti-poverty programmes in the Scottish Government. Simon Rustom is managing director of CC, helping companies to deliver high quality customer management and contact centre advice. Simon has worked closely with a number of the train operators, for example, in increasing customer satisfactions scores and improving customer information systems. Professor Daniel Zizzo, Dean of Research and Innovation and Professor of Economics at Newcastle University, is an experimental and behavioural economist. Current research interests include bounded rationality, consumer behaviour and nudging in the presence of complexity. The panel also comprises institutional members that bring a range of sector specific expertise and research to understand the different needs and experiences of passengers that rely on Britain's railways: Passenger Focus and London TravelWatch are the independent voice of the passenger, ensuring passengers' views are heard by government and industry. The Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee (DPTAC) advises government on the transport needs of disabled people, advocating for an accessible transport system. Last updated - 7 November 2014 
file_959.txt|Have your say on Imperial College decommissioning 29 January, 2015 The Office for Nuclear Regulation is holding a formal three-month consultation period to provide an opportunity for interested parties to comment on the application, by Imperial College, to begin decommissioning of the research reactor known as CONSORT, at the Imperial College Silwood Park campus near Ascot in Berkshire. Consultees are invited to comment upon any aspect of the decommissioning project, particularly the environmental impact statement. This consultation will close on 28 April 2015 and ONRâ€™s decision report is expected in the summer. 
file_516.txt|Publication scheme Publication scheme Every public authority subject to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (FOI) is required to adopt and maintain a publication scheme. A publication scheme is a commitment to routinely and proactively provide information to the public. The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has asked public authorities to adopt a model publication scheme. Details of the model publication scheme is available on the ICO website . We have produced a publication scheme pdf icon PDF, 118 Kb which will help you find ORR information that is readily available. The right to know The general right of access does not mean that we disclose all information requested under the FOI Act. Guidance in relation to the various exemptions is available from the Ministry of Justice website . Where we obtain information as a result of our statutory functions, Section 145 of the Railways Act 1993 may prohibit us from disclosing this information without the consent of the person that provided it. Depending on the facts of a particular case, we will consider whether it is appropriate to seek a third party's consent to disclosure of information covered by Section 145. Since the FOI request of 9 March 2007 was processed, ORR has received written representations from ATOC putting on the record their objection to onward disclosure of their LENNON database information on the grounds of its commercially sensitive nature. ORR has therefore concluded that it is now prohibited from releasing this database information under Section 145 of the Railways Act 1993 (the 1993 Act) and Section 237 of the Enterprise Act 2002 (the 2002 Act). Section 145 of the 1993 Act provides that no information with respect to any particular business which has been obtained under or by virtue of any provisions of that Act, and relates to the affairs of any individual or to any particular business (i.e. train operators and Network Rail), shall be disclosed without the consent of that individual or business. Section 237 of the 2002 Act has a similar exemption in terms of information obtained by ORR in the course of investigations made under the Competition Act 1998 or the 2002 Act. Releasing information in breach of the bar in both s.145 and s.237 is a criminal offence. Charging for information requests We will consider charging for complying with information requests on an individual basis in accordance with the Freedom of Information and Data Protection (Appropriate Limit and Fees) Regulations 2004. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_204.txt|or press.office@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Out-of-hours 07770 446 189 The latest UK pharmaceutical regulations, EU directives and guidance for manufacturers and distributors of human medicines, known as the Orange and Green Guides, compiled by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), are available to buy now. These are an essential purchase for anyone subject to good manufacturing practice (GMP) and good distribution practice (GDP) in Europe. The Orange Guide (Rules and Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Distributors) contains information and legislation relating to the manufacture and distribution of human medicines. The Green Guide  (Rules and Guidance for Pharmaceutical Distributors) provides information on the broader distribution. Mark Birse, MHRA GMDP Group Manager, IE&S said: “The Orange and  Green Guides are essential tools in helping companies understand the regulatory environment in which they operate, follow good practice and stay compliant with the law. "This is key to ensuring that safe and high quality medicines for people are being made and distributed, providing the trust needed by patients and healthcare professionals to use them.” There are new sections on: MHRA Innovation Office MHRA Compliance Management and Inspection Action Group MHRA’s risk-based inspection programme naming contract quality control laboratories on a manufacturer’s licence the gold standard for Responsible Persons the application and inspection process for new licences - what to expect The new Green Guide has been updated to incorporate the revised EU guidelines on GDP. In addition there are new sections on: GDP quality systems the European Commission Q&A on GDP guidelines the gold standard for Responsible Persons a list of persons who can be supplied with medicines by way of wholesale dealing (Human Medicines Regulations 2012) controls on certain medicinal products Compliance Management and Inspection Action Group the application and inspection process for new licences - what to expect sales representative samples handling returns of non-defective medicinal products MHRA’s risk-based inspection programme reporting adverse reactions short-term storage of ambient and refrigerated medicinal products – requirements for a wholesale dealers authorisation MHRA Innovation Office Both publications provide a new flow chart on registration requirements for UK companies involved in the sourcing and supply of active substances (ASs) to be used in the manufacture of licensed human medicines. Notes to Editor The Orange and Green Guides are published by Pharmaceutical Press, and are available to order in print at www.pharmpress.com. They are also both available online via MedicinesComplete (external link) Pharmaceutical Press is the publishing division of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society. We produce the most comprehensive and trustworthy range of independent pharmaceutical information in the world, including reference works, textbooks, digital products and services, professional titles and journals. The MHRA Innovation Office MHRA is a centre of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency which also includes the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). MHRA is an executive agency of the Department of Health. Download documents: 
file_781.txt|Current appeals Current appeals Under Part M of the Network Code, parties can appeal to ORR against determinations made by the relevant panel of the Access Disputes Committee which it considers to be wrong or unjust because of a serious procedural or other irregularity. Details of appeals made under the under Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 are available separately. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_848.txt|Improvement notices Improvement notices Our inspectors normally enforce health and safety standards by giving advice on how to comply with the law. Sometimes they must order people to make improvements by issuing them with a notice, for example an improvement notice, which allows time for the recipient to comply. We became the health and safety regulator for the rail industry in April 2006. We enforce health and safety legislation on the railways in England, Scotland and Wales. Prior to April 2006, the HSE enforced legislation on the railway and their notices can be found on the HSE website . Copies of improvement notices issued by us can be found on our public register , and details are also listed by year on our website: 
file_423.txt|French language leaflets English language leaflets 
file_658.txt|This page lists the main milestones in the periodic review 2013 (PR13) process. We published our first PR13 consultation document 25/05/11 ORR hosted consultation events on PR13 held in Edinburgh, Cardiff, London and Manchester 05/11/12 & 21/07/11 ORR hosted workshop on the Schedule 8 performance regime 25/07/11 Online publication of our document on how we will assess Network Rail's efficient expenditure 26/07/11 Our first consultation document published 25 May closes 02/09/11 ORR hosted workshop on our document discussing how we should assess Network Rail's efficient expenditure 21/09/11 ORR hosted workshop on incentives 23/09/11 The initial industry plans (IIPs) for England & Wales and Scotland are published, setting out the industry's view on what should be delivered in the next control period and at what cost By 30/09/11 We publish a review of the role of open access operators on-rail competition By 30/09/11 We seek views on the IIPs - this will not be a formal consultation, but an opportunity to get any further views before we produce our advice to ministers 01/10/11 We receive stakeholder feedback on our 26 July 2011 efficient expenditure consultation document 14/10/11 ORR hosted workshop on Schedule 4 possessions regime 11/11/11 Transport Scotland consults on the contract for passenger services and priorities for rail beyond 2014, which will feed into the development of the High-Level Output Specification in Scotland 16/11/11 We receive views on the IIP by this date 18/11/11 The deadline for comments on our review of the role of open access operators in on-rail competition 04/12/11 Consultation on detailed incentives issues and proposals 14/12/11 ORR hosted workshop on the incentives consultation 09/01/12 Consultation closes on our consultation on incentives 08/02/12 Formal review phase We published our 'advice to ministers' (for both England & Wales and Scotland) and issued our review initiation notice formally starting PR13 15/03/12 We publish our Financial and incentive framework for CP5 (this document), setting out the approach we will be taking on the financial and incentive framework following consultations on these areas in December 2011 and May 2011, along with our conclusions on our consultation on on-rail competition last October 01/05/12 We consult on exposing train operators to changes in Network Rail's costs at periodic reviews and how our route-based efficiency benefit sharing mechanism should interact with alliancing arrangements 03/05/12 We consult on the variable usage charge and on a freight-specific charge 17/05/12 Workshop on track access charges: cap on variable usage charge and freight-specific charge 18/05/12 Consultation closes on exposing train operators to changes in Network Rail's costs at periodic reviews and on how our route-based efficiency benefit sharing mechanism should interact with alliancing arrangements 12/07/12 Our consultation on caps and mark-ups on certain freight track access charges closes 31/07/12 The Secretary of State for Transport and Scottish Ministers publish their HLOSs/SoFAs By 31/07/12 We consult on detailed financial issues concerning Network Rail's financial framework for CP5 By 01/08/12 We consult on the outputs Network Rail should be required to deliver, and the wider framework of enablers and monitoring KPIs By 01/08/12 Consultation ends on the variable usage charge and on a freight-specific charge 10/08/12 Our Consultation on financial issues for Network Rail in CP5 closes 26/09/12 Our consultation on Network Rail's output framework for 2014-19 closes 28/09/12 We consult on more detailed issues relating to Schedules 4 and 8 restrictions of use and performance regimes 26/11/12 We publish our decisions following our consultation on detailed financial issues concerning Network Rail's financial framework 13/12/12 We consult on the proposals for reforming the volume incentive 18/12/12 We published our conclusions on aligning incentives to improve efficiency, following our consultation on 3 May 2012 18/12/12 Network Rail publishes its strategic business plan (SBP). ORR invites stakeholder comments on SBP 08/01/13 We publish our decisions on caps for freight charges for CP5 11/01/13 Workshop on Network Rail's strategic business plan 13/02/13 ORR consults on a freight specific charge for biomass 15/02/13 Stakeholder comments on Network Rail's strategic business plan received by this date 19/02/13 Deadline for response to consultation on a freight specific charge for biomass 28/03/13 We consult on technical issues relating to traction electricity charges 10/04/13 We publish our draft determination 12/06/13 On-rail competition: consultation on options for change in open access 14/06/13 Consultation on proposed contractual and licence changes to implement the proposals in our draft determination 12/07/13 ORR letter: decision on Network Rail's consultation on Schedule 8 Network Rail payment rates for London commuter flows 16/07/13 Consultative letter expanding on the discussion of the capacity charge 17/07/13 We publish our long-term regulatory statement Jul 2013 Contingency arrangements for a delay to PR13 implementation 09/08/13 Draft conclusions on structure of charges and Schedule 8 performance regime for charter operators 23/08/13 The consultations on our draft determination and proposed contractual and licence changes to implement the determination both close 04/09/13 Consultation on implementing PR13 - charter operators 13/09/13 Periodic review 2013: capacity charge for franchise and open access passenger for CP5 25/09/13 Periodic review 2013: consultation on implementing PR13 – capacity charge 30/09/13 Periodic review 2013: consultation on implementing the EC4T cost reconciliation 02/10/13 We publish our final determination 31/10/13 Final access charges (price lists/charge schedules) are audited and approved by us. Review notices are served which start the formal implementation of PR13 20/12/13 Final point at which Network Rail could object to our review notices 07/02/14 We issue notices of agreement Feb 14 We issue our review implementation notice Mar 14 Network Rail publishes its delivery plan By 31/03/14 Implementation of PR13 determination and start of CP5. 01/04/14 Implementation phase (assuming no objections) Final access charges (price lists/charge schedules) are audited and approved by us. Review notices are served which start the formal implementation of PR13 20/12/13 Final point at which Network Rail could object to our review notices 07/02/14 We issue notices of agreement Feb 14 We issue our review implementation notice Mar 14 Network Rail publishes its delivery plan By 31/03/14 Implementation of PR13 determination and start of CP5. 01/04/14 
file_578.txt|Enforcement activity Enforcement activity in 2012-13 A summary of our safety enforcement activities in 2012-13, including improvement and prohibition notices and prosecutions. In most cases we secure improvements in health and safety for passengers, the workforce and public through evidence-based advice and encouragement to duty holders to improve and adapt their risk management. But occasionally we use our formal powers to ensure compliance with the law or deal with immediate risk. Mostly, we use enforcement notices to stop an activity involving serious risk or to rectify serious gaps in risk control. Our enforcement policy statement sets out how we ensure rigour and consistency in our enforcement decisions by using our enforcement management model. Improvement notices in 2012-13 SMS = Safety Management Model; TOC = train operating company; and FOC = freight operating company. Key specific reasons for improvement notices in 2012-13, included failures to: provide suitable and sufficient risk assessment to manage earthworks and landslip failures during adverse weather and provide a process to manage the incomplete visual examination of structure; ensure risk control measures used to prevent risks to trains running on adjacent open lines from on-track vehicles, or to provide effective risk assessments for employees and contractors carrying out work on or near the railway where trains are running; ensure that access to the dangerous parts of on-track machinery is adequately prevented; and comply with regulations, included the Electricity at Work Regulations, 1989. Prohibition notices in 2012-13 SMS = Safety Management Model; TOC = train operating company; and FOC = freight operating company. Key specific reasons for prohibition notices in 2012-13 included failures to: manage a rail lifting operation using road-rail vehicles, and separately to manage lifting operations to prevent fouling of the adjacent line, and the unloading of road-rail vehicles; manage risks at a heritage workshop and the potential for a platform canopy collapse; and manage risks to worker while erecting scaffolding over a river. Prosecutions We concluded 11-successful prosecutions for serious breaches of health and safety law against 13-companies and one individual with fines totalling around £5.5m. Companies prosecuted included Network Rail and two mainline train operating companies, heritage organisations, Transport for London and contractors working for railways companies. Company 
file_43.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Business advisers Employers are likely to ask you for help to choose and run a good quality pension scheme for automatic enrolment. And it’s not just about pensions – automatic enrolment will impact upon most areas of your clients' businesses. Independent financial advisers (IFAs), employee benefit consultants (EBCs), actuaries, accountants, bookkeepers and other advisers can use our guidance and resources to help their clients make the right choices. 
file_452.txt|Our duties Our duties We have a number of statutory duties derived from legislation, which includes the Railways Act 1993. The duties are listed below. Duties under section 4 of the Railways Act 1993 To promote improvements in railway service performance; Otherwise to protect the interests of users of railway services; To promote the use of the railway network in Great Britain for the carriage of passengers and goods, and the development of that railway network, to the greatest extent that it considers economically practicable; To contribute to the development of an integrated system of transport of passengers and goods; To contribute to the achievement of sustainable development; To promote efficiency and economy on the part of persons providing railway services; To promote competition in the provision of railway services for the benefit of users of railway services; To promote measures designed to facilitate the making by passengers of journeys which involve use of the services of more than one passenger service operator; To impose on the operators of railway services the minimum restrictions which are consistent with the performance of ORR's functions under Part 1 RA 1993 and under RA 2005; To enable persons providing railway services to plan the future of their businesses with a reasonable degree of assurance; To take into account the need to protect all persons from dangers arising from the operation of railways; To protect the interests of users and potential users of services for the carriage of passengers by railway provided by a private sector operator, otherwise than under a franchise agreement, in respect of the prices charged for travel by means of those services, and the quality of the service provided; To have regard to the effect on the environment of activities connected with the provision of railway services; To protect the interests of persons providing services for the carriage of passengers or goods by railway in their use of any railway facilities which are for the time being vested in a private sector operator, in respect of the prices charged for such use and the quality of the service provided; In the case of functions other than its safety functions as an enforcing authority for the purposes of the HSWA 1974, to have regard to any general guidance given to it by the Secretary of State about railway services or other matters relating to railways; To act in a manner which it considers will not render it unduly difficult for persons who are holders of network licences to finance any activities or proposed activities of theirs in relation to which ORR has functions; To have regard to any notified strategies and policies of the National Assembly of Wales and the ability of the National Assembly of Wales to carry out its functions; To have regard to any general guidance given by the Secretary of State, or Scottish Ministers in relation to Scottish railway services, about railway services or other matters relating to railways; To have regard to the funds available to the Secretary of State for the purposes of his functions in relation to railways or railways services; To have regard to the ability of the Mayor of London and Transport for London to carry out the functions conferred or imposed on them by or under any enactment; To have regard, in particular, to the interests of persons who are disabled in relation to services for the carriage of passengers by railway or to station services; and To have regard to the interests, in securing value for money, of the users or potential users of railway services, of persons providing railway services, of the persons who make available the resources and funds and of the general public. Other duties Section 21 of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link Act 1996 provides that ORR shall have an overriding duty to exercise its regulatory functions in such a manner as not to impede the performance of any development agreement; Section 22 of the Crossrail Act 2008 provides that section 4(1) of RA 1993 shall be treated as including the objective of facilitating the construction of Crossrail. It also provides that ORR shall consult the Secretary of State about this aspect of the duty. Schedule 3 of the Railways Act 2005 gives ORR a general duty to do such things and make such arrangements as it considers appropriate for the purposes of railway safety, and to assist and encourage persons concerned with matters relevant to those purposes to further those purposes. Section 1 of the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 also gives ORR a general duty to secure the health and safety of persons at work, and of those who might be put at risk as a result of the activities of persons at work. Section 72 of the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act 2008 requires us to keep our functions under review and secure that in exercising these functions that we do not: a)    impose burdens which we consider to be unnecessary, or b)    maintain burdens which we consider to have become unnecessary. We also have a new equalities duty under Section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 which requires us to have due regard to the need to: a)    eliminate discrimination, harassment, victimisation and any other conduct that is prohibited by or under this Act; b)    advance equality of opportunity between persons who share a relevant protected characteristic and persons who do not share it (relevant protected characteristics are – age; disability; gender reassignment; pregnancy and maternity; race; religion or belief; sex; sexual orientation); c)    foster good relations between persons who share a relevant protected characteristic and persons who do not share it. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_709.txt|Network Rail's regulatory accounts provide information on Network Rail's financial performance on a regulatory basis. CP5 Regulatory accounting guidelines These are the regulatory accounting guidelines for CP5. A key objective of these guidelines is to establish regulatory financial statements that are consistent with the regulatory framework established by our 2013 periodic review ('PR13') determination. Network Rail's CP5 regulatory accounts will be prepared in accordance with these guidelines unless an updated version of the guidelines is issued. 
file_759.txt|New contracts (section 17 and 18) New contracts (section 17 and 18) Updated consultation (including Stevenage):consultationThis page contains all current applications we are considering for new, agreed contracts (section 18 of the Railways Act 1993) and new, disputed contracts (section 17 of the Act). When we have made our decision, the information held in the current application section is moved into the relevant decisions section . In line with the Industry code of practice (see Annex A of our criteria and procedures document ), Network Rail is responsible for consulting on most proposed new contracts and amendments. Accordingly, please check Network Rail's consultation webpages (select Track Access) as well as our own when looking for details of current consultations. TOC / FOC 
file_343.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_846.txt|Current licence consultations This page details proposals to grant licences or licence exemptions on which we are consulting. For licences or licence exemptions in force, please contact the licensing and access team or see our public register . Proposal to grant 
file_260.txt|Error: Page cannot be displayed Unfortunately the page you are looking for has not been found on our website. Please use the back button on your browser and try again or use our: Alternatively, you may be able to find an archived version of this page in the National Archives (external link) If you need any assistance please contact our Web Team by emailing webupdates@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Please help us improve our website by reporting technical problems using our online Technical feedback form 
file_164.txt|If you are reporting about your own suspected reactions to a medicine and you are a healthcare professional, please fill in the 'reporter type' as healthcare professional. Contact Email Email address Please note this email address has previously been registered with the Yellow Card site,     you can login here .     Logging in will save you time and you can then keep a track of submitted reports. Please provide an email address to receive notifications about your submission. 1. Reporter Details Thank you for choosing to report a suspected adverse reaction to the Yellow Card Scheme. The information that you provide can help us in our work to identify previously unrecognised side effects, and thereby improve the safe use of medicines.    We will use the email address provided below for future correspondence about this report, however if this is not given then we will correspond using the postal address provided. Fields that you must complete are marked with this symbol: Profession If you are a healthcare professional we ask for your occupation as this helps us to have a better understanding of the the case. Title 
file_535.txt|ROGS ROGS This page provides an overview of the regulatory requirements for managing safety on the railways, tramways and other guided transport systems.  It describes who needs to comply and summarises what they need to do to meet minimum standards in Great Britain and across the European Union. The Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS) came into force in 2006. ROGS provide the regulatory regime for rail safety, including the mainline railway, metros (including London Underground), tramways, light rail and heritage railways. The Regulations implement the European Railway Safety Directive (2004/49/EC), which aims to establish a common approach to rail safety and support the development of a single market for rail transport services in Europe. We have published an approved list of transport systems that are excluded from the mainline railway. The regulations require most railway operators (known as transport operators) to maintain a safety management system (SMS) and hold a safety certificate or authorisation indicating the SMS has been accepted by the Office of Rail Regulation. The findings of ORR's monitoring and evaluation exercise on the performance and impact ofROGS can be found on the impact of ROGS on the rail industry page. What changes have been made to ROGS? ROGS has been amended by the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) (Amendment) Regulations 2011 and the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2013. From 26 August 2011 ROGS introduced the concept of an ' entity in charge of maintenance ' (ECM). These changes are incorporated into the unofficial consolidated version of ROGS pdf icon PDF, 521 Kb . Who must comply with ROGS? The ROGS regulations have changed the way our inspectors work. The regulations require most railway operators to maintain a safety management system (SMS) and hold a safety certificate or authorisation indicating the SMS has been accepted by us. One of our primary roles is to check that the railway operators have, and implemented, an effective health and safety management system that protects workers, passengers and others from harm, so far as is reasonably practicable. The following entities must comply with ROGS: Transport undertakings - Any person or organisation that operates a vehicle in relation to any infrastructure. People or organisations that only carry out work in 'engineering possessions' (meaning sections of track closed to normal traffic for maintenance work) are not included. Only some of the duties in ROGS apply to them. Infrastructure managers - Any person or organisation responsible for developing and maintaining infrastructure or for managing and operating a station and manages or uses that infrastructure or station or allows it to be used for the operation of a vehicle. Transport operator - any transport undertaking or infrastructure manager. An 'entity in charge of maintenance' (ECM) - any person or organisation that is responsible for the safe maintenance of a vehicle and is registered as an ECM in the national vehicle register. This can include people or organisations such as transport undertakings, infrastructure managers, a keeper (usually the owner of a rail vehicle) or a maintenance organisation. What must I do to meet the requirements of ROGS? The most important parts of ROGS are as follows: Safety certificates and authorisations Under ROGS, no one is allowed to operate vehicles or manage infrastructure on GB railways unless they have obtained the appropriate safety certificate or authorisation from us. Applicants need to show how their safety management system allows them to run their transport system safely. We will focus on checking that safety management systems are effective and fit for the purpose they are being used for. Lower-risk sectors (tramways and transport systems that do not run at speeds above 40 kilometres per hour) do not need safety certificates, but must still have a written safety management system in place. Read more about about safety certificates and authorisations Risk assessments ROGS place a specific duty on transport operators to carry out risk assessments and put in place the measures they have identified as necessary to make sure the transport system is run safely. Mainline transport operators must also comply with the common safety method for risk evaluation and assessment. Safety verification Non-mainline operators are responsible for ensuring that they have procedures in place to introduce new or altered vehicles or infrastructure safely. Where a new or significantly increased risk is involved, they must appoint an independent competent person (either an internal person from the organisation, or someone externally) to help them make sure they go through the right processes. This duty no longer applies to mainline operators as they now have to meet the requirements of the Commission Regulation setting out a common safety method for risk evaluation and assessment. Read more about safety verification Mainline transport operators' annual safety reports Any mainline transport operator who holds a safety certificate or safety authorisation must send us an annual report on their safety performance. Read more about annual safety reports Cooperation ROGS also gives operators (and other people such as contractors) a duty to work together to make sure the transport system is run safely. Read more about cooperation Managing safety critical work Operators and their contractors have clear duties under ROGS to make sure their employees who carry out safety critical tasks are suitably competent and fit to do so. This also includes making sure these employees are not affected by fatigue. Read more about safety critical work Entities in charge of maintenance ROGS requires that no person may place in service or use a vehicle on the mainline railway unless that vehicle has an entity in charge of maintenance (ECM) assigned to it, and that the ECM is registered as such in the National Vehicle Register (NVR). This has to happen before the vehicle is placed in service or used on the network. There is also a requirement for the ECM to establish a system of maintenance. If an ECM is responsible for freight wagons, it must also obtain an ECM certificate. Exclusions from the mainline railway requirements ROGS give us discretion to exclude from the mainline railway requirements certain transport systems. 
file_2.txt|Automatic enrolment - act now A lifetime's savings can be lost in a moment Pension scams are on the increase in the UK. Check the facts before you make an irreversible decision. Pension scams. Don’t get stung. Your role in the future of defined contribution Use our new tools to demonstrate the quality of your defined contribution (DC) pension scheme to employers and scheme members. Find out how to assess your scheme Striking the balance for your defined benefit scheme Use our revised code to ensure your defined benefit (DB) pension scheme is run and funded effectively in order to meet its promises. 
file_11.txt|Closing a scheme Create your action plan for automatic enrolment This planner has been designed to help you identify what you'll need to do to prepare for automatic enrolment. Any employer preparing for automatic enrolment should find it helpful, but it’s of particular relevance to you if: you employ up to 249 staff every member of staff is based in the UK you have one Pay As You Earn (PAYE) scheme you have or are planning to set up a defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. Create your action plan Allow plenty of time to prepare for automatic enrolment. We recommend starting 12 months before your staging date, though this will vary depending on your individual circumstances – not all employers will need to allow so much time. Step 1 Find out your staging date To create your action plan, you'll need your staging date. You can find it by entering your PAYE reference into our staging date tool. Even if you think you know it already, it's a good idea to double-check it prior to creating your plan. 
file_86.txt|The areas of defined benefit (DB) scheme management key to ensuring a well-run and well-funded scheme. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit We provide a free online learning programme called the Trustee toolkit which you should complete, unless you arrange the equivalent learning. You must login or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
file_593.txt|Responses to RAIB reports 2012 Responses to RAIB reports 2012 Our responses to the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) in relation to their recommendations published in 2012. Incident date 
file_336.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_416.txt|Privacy and the Data Protection Act policy statement The hse.gov.uk site is managed by the Health and Safety Executive Online Team. This page explains: how we use information you give to us how we protect your privacy Privacy and the Data Protection Act HSE’s functions are set out in the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. In carrying out these functions, we necessarily collect information on businesses and individuals. You might also provide us with information by using this website, for example, by giving us feedback or sending a query or request to us. HSE is registered as a data controller under the Data Protection Act 1998 and a description of how we use personal information is included on HSE's entry on the register which is maintained by the Information Commissioner’s Office . HSE is under a legal duty to protect any personal information we collect and we will only use that information in accordance with the law, including the Data Protection Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act. We use leading technologies and encryption software to safeguard data and apply strict security standards to prevent any unauthorised access to it. In order to carry out our functions and respond to enquiries effectively, we will sometimes need to share information with other government departments, the emergency services, law enforcement agencies, public authorities (such as local authorities and the Environment Agency) and organisations acting on our behalf. However, we will only do this where it is permitted by law. Information charter From time to time we need to handle personal information about you so that we can provide services for you. Our Information charter shows how we look after that information What information do we collect from visitors to our website? We collect two kinds of information from visitors to hse.gov.uk: feedback (through emails to our Internet services team) site usage information, from log files and cookies Correspondents should note that all communications to or from the Health and Safety Executive may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for lawful purposes. Confidentiality 
file_910.txt|Publication dates Publication dates The publication timetable lists the publication dates for official statistics, the statistical releases and other statistics that we publish. These dates are determined by availability of the data and are the earliest possible dates which we can publish the information. The one exception to this is Timetabled Train Kilometres which are calculated in advance from biannual data – the second quarter of results are held back until they can be compared with other datasets from the same quarter. For any further information, please contact the statistics Head of Profession, Fazilat Dar at rstats@orr.gsi.gov.uk or on 0207 282 3705. Month 
file_998.txt|Transparency and Freedom of Information : Transparency and Freedom of Information As well as responding to requests made under the Freedom of Information Act we are committed to publishing things such as procurement opportunities, job vacancies and financial data without it being requested. Transparency data Performance-related pay, 2012 to 2013 GCSE English 2012 Judicial Review We submitted a bundle of evidence to the Judicial Review into the grading of GCSE English in summer 2012 exams. You should first read the index of evidence to find out which volume of information you need and then download that volume below. Be aware that the size of each volume is quite large. You can make a request for information by writing to: Freedom of Information Requests, CV5 6UB or alternatively by email at foi@ofqual.gov.uk We will let you know that we’ve received your request and will respond within 20 working days. If we can’t give you a full response within 20 days we’ll let you know that there’s a delay. If we don’t have the information you requested, we will try and help you find out who might have the information. Complaints If you’re not happy with the way we handled your request you can ask for an internal review by contacting: Freedom of Information Officer, If you’re not happy with our review, you can write to the Information Commissioner: FOI/EIR Complaints Resolution, More about the Act can be found on the Information Commissioner’s Office website. Publication scheme Find out more about our publication scheme Data Protection Act The Data Protection Act gives individuals the right to see information that an organisation holds about them. It also requires the organisation holding personal information to comply with a number of important principles. This legislation is not limited to government bodies, but also covers many commercial organisations. For queries about data protection issues within Ofqual please email public.enquiries@ofqual.gov.uk Requests for personal information should be made in writing to: Data Protection Officer, 
file_876.txt|Access consultations Access consultations When considering applications, we may consult certain statutory bodies and other potentially affected parties to ensure that their views on the implications of the proposal are sought and taken into account. Consultations for land disposal are now carried out by Network Rail prior to its application to ORR for permission. See land disposal for the latest cases. All approved agreements and subsequently approved amendments are held on our public register . Where we have published decisions for approvals, these decisions and the background papers will be published in this section. 
file_756.txt|Connection contracts Connection contracts This section contains information and guidance relating to connection contracts including the model connection contract and the applicability of the associated General Approval. Also there is an application form and a template for novation. If you wish to connect facilities to the Network Rail network you should consider using our model connection contract odt icon ODT, 62 Kb . This contract sets out the rights and obligations of the parties for the ongoing operation and maintenance (including renewal) of connections between two railway networks. There is a separate model connection contract for Scotland odt icon ODT, 62 Kb . New connection contracts may not need to come to ORR for specific approval if they fall under the terms described in our General Approval pdf icon PDF, 132 Kb . Contracts which fall under the terms are automatically approved by us and will not need to be submitted to us to go through our approval process. Parties to such contracts should still send us a copy of the signed contract when it is entered into. If your contract is not with Network Rail or not covered by the General Approval you need to apply for ORR's specific approval. Here is a form for you to use Form C odt icon ODT, 88 Kb . From time to time parties wish to novate their connection contract to transfer the rights and obligations of the connection contract from one Facility Owner to another. This is a standard template novation odt icon ODT, 21 Kb which is regularly used. On 30 September 2014 we started a consultation on extending the general approval to include the novation of connection contracts based on ORR's template. We published our conclusions on 15 December 2014. Last updated - 15 December 2014 
file_771.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_576.txt|The wider health and safety landscape The wider health and safety landscape A summary of the legislative developments in 2012-13 affecting railway health and safety enforcement, including the European Commission's Fourth Railway Package, occupational health, safety in the channel tunnel, staff competence; and the work of the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) and Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB).  Legislative framework Our work to ensure Britain's railway industry improves its health and safety culture, and has effective risk control measures, relies on having the right goal-setting health and safety law in place. We are responsible for preparing proposals for railway-specific safety regulations and for ensuring that these are accompanied by simple, clear guidance to support compliance. Most railway-specific safety law now originates from Europe and we work closely with the Department for Transport (DfT) to ensure the UK has the appropriate framework of law and meets its obligations under European requirements. We support the development of a European framework which promotes market opening, and improves rail's competitiveness, while ensuring that a robust safety regime is in place. To achieve these goals, we believe that the future priorities are: ensuring proper implementation throughout Europe of the existing obligations and responsibilities in the Railway Safety Directive, and other measures in the second railway package; and developing cooperation arrangements between NSAs to ensure effective supervision and enforcement. We have worked constructively with the European Commission and the European Railway Agency (ERA) throughout the year. Key aspects of our engagement included: working with DfT, UK stakeholders and other NSAs to influence the outcome of the European Commission's fourth railway package promoting a coordinated approach by NSAs, and effective liaison with the European sector, on key issues in the European safety regulatory regime; taking forward the development of a common approach to post-certification supervision by NSAs and monitoring of duty holders' management systems; influencing the development of a revised European regulation for risk assessment; and ensuring a pragmatic approach to the certification regime for entities in charge of maintenance for freight vehicles. Fourth railway package The European Commission has proposed changes to the Railway Safety Directive and Interoperability Directive, as part of its fourth Railway Package proposals. We support the general approach reached in the EU Transport Council for interoperability, which gives ERA the role of issuing authorisations for vehicles to be used in more than one Member State and gives the proposer a choice of using ERA or the National Safety Authority (ORR in the UK) for domestic-only vehicles authorisations. The Council is now considering safety certification and ORR is liaising with the Department for Transport, other National Safety Authorities and stakeholders to ensure that practicable arrangements are agreed for the future, We support the concept of a single safety certificate, which combines current Part A and Part B, but there are significant differences in the process that may mean that the approach to interoperability, i.e. giving ERA a direct role may not be the optimum solution for safety certification. Legislative policy work during the year We have: continued to work with the Law Commissions for England and Wales, and Scotland to finalise their joint-policy to modernise and simplify the way in which level crossing risks are governed. Their final report is expected in summer 2013. We will work with DfT on the long-term implementation of subsequent draft regulations and a draft Bill; introduced further amendments to the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 ( ROGS ) and supporting guidance covering the certification of entities in charge of maintenance (ECMs) for freight vehicles and other changes to secure better regulation; managed processes required by the train driver licensing Directive, including issuing around 200 train driver licences and the recognition of relevant doctors, psychologists, training and examination centres; continued to work with DfT on the Government's Red Tape Challenge , including a project to review, consolidate and improve three sets of out-dated rail safety legislation. Consultation on this is planned for summer 2013; and worked closely with the HSE to reform its health and safety legislation, including securing the retention of reporting requirements under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 (RIDDOR) that remain important to the rail sector. This included persuading HSE to retain the legal requirement for rail industry to report and record occupational diseases. Occupational health Our vision is of a rail industry that consistently achieves best practice in occupational health. We continue to develop our occupational health programme to improve the way in which the industry tackles health issues. In particular we want the industry to: encourage greater health management leadership; promote awareness of health issues; and encourage a culture of excellence in the management of health. A number of duty holders responded to our programme by developing their own tailored company health programmes; common themes included managing stress and wider employee health and wellbeing initiatives. We also found evidence of operators working collaboratively with external agencies to develop their ideas. There was a mixed picture across the industry on health risk management; HSE's Labour Force Survey found that rail workers reported ill-health rates 40% higher than across other sectors and 18% higher than non-rail construction workers. We found that this was because of issues such as: low-levels of competence and engagement amongst managers and supervisors on health risk control; an absence of work-activity health risk assessments; poor control and implementation of risk control measures to prevent conditions such as hand-arm vibrations; and insufficient attention to the "hierarchy of control" principles, with missed opportunities to remove, design or engineer-out risk and too much reliance on the use of personal protective equipment to ensure safety. We found some examples of positive actions: collaborative work by the ballast dust working group, led by Network Rail, on controlling the risks posed by exposure to silica dust; activity to better manage the health risks arising from welding and cutting of rail; and improved cleaning regimes to reduce the risk of legionella-related disease or microbiological hazards in aerosol water. The work we have done on our occupational health programme identified the pivotal role of managers and supervisors in health risk management. We issued new web-based guidance and advice on rail managers' occupational health competence; the key knowledge areas they need and good practice training resources. We held an event attended by 70 people from the industry focusing on the financial case for good health management. Case studies showed there is a compelling financial case that can be made in any cost-benefit analysis. Safety of the Channel Tunnel We provide the UK Secretariat for the bi-national Channel Tunnel Intergovernmental Commission (IGC) and the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority (CTSA). In addition we provide representatives to both bodies and other expert assistance, including policy expertise and inspectors. With the co-operation of our French IGC and CTSA colleagues and Eurotunnel, we aim to regulate the tunnel in the same way we regulate the rest of Britain's railway infrastructure. We believe this will help the UK and French governments to ensure the Tunnel's good safety record is maintained, while delivering benefits in terms of greater competition through new operators and services. The benefits of our approach were demonstrated by IGC's decision in June 2013 to issue a Part B safety certificate allowing Deutsche Bahn (through its subsidiary DB Schenker UK Ltd) to operate passenger services through the Channel Tunnel. The past year has also seen the removal by IGC of many unnecessary safety and technical requirements; a positive change that is already being exploited through the successful testing of two new types of freight locomotive in the Tunnel and the authorisation of several new types of freight wagon to transit the Channel. Other key achievements in 2012-13, include: full implementation of the 2008 Interoperability Directive for the Channel Tunnel, establishing a vehicle authorisation process that aligns with European requirements; development of a published procedure for the certification of train operators, again in accordance with European requirements; revision of IGC and CTSA's change approval arrangements to provide a more proportionate regulatory approach and reduce administrative burdens on Eurotunnel; and closure of all outstanding recommendations arising from the serious Eurotunnel Shuttle fire of November 2008. Staff competence Industry competence and skills capability are essential elements in delivering future industry investment plans. We commissioned the National Skills Academy for Railway Engineering (NSARE) to produce a comprehensive skills-forecasting model to predict the number of additional skilled people required to either meet anticipated growth or to compensate for those leaving the industry . Poor non-technical skills (NTS) amongst the rail operator workforce, including the inability to maintain concentration, anticipate risk and diagnose and solve problems, contribute to the majority of operational incidents that we investigate. We are encouraged by the recent efforts by Network Rail and some train operators to improve NTS in key roles and improve competence management. Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) Relationship between ORR and RAIB RAIB's role is to conduct 'no blame' investigations into rail accidents to identify factors that may have contributed to an incident or made its outcome worse and publish reports which can contain recommendations for industry improvement. Our role is to influence and monitor industry actions to implement RAIB recommendations and respond to RAIB accordingly. We continue to strengthen our senior management-level dialogue with RAIB to improve the understanding, emerging issues from incidents and investigations and consequently, how recommendations from RAIB reports are constructed and addressed. We continue to work closely with RAIB colleagues from the early stages of their investigations to understand how industry weaknesses may be rectified and provide appropriate advice. This helps to ensure RAIB's recommendations are proportionate, effective and that we gain a strong insight into their purpose. More recently, we have worked more closely with RAIB when we are considering the industry's response to RAIB's recommendations. Our inspectors liaise with RAIB investigators at all stages of the process, particularly if there is uncertainty about responses from end-implementers. We recognise that there is a small number of recommendations (43), amounting to 4% of the total published by RAIB, still in progress two years after publication of the RAIB reports and that some of the issues and original actions from end-implementers may no longer be relevant. We continue to work with the industry to close out these issues. Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) Relationship between ORR and RSSB We participate as an observer at RSSB's board, which annually reviews mainline rail safety risks to passengers, the workforce and public. RSSB's board annually reviews and issues reports on the completeness of the data it collects . We use RSSB's Safety Risk Model and Precursor Indicator Model, and their other periodic safety reports, to help inform our view of the mainline industry's safety performance, including providing data for mandatory European reporting requirement. We pay particular attention to RSSB's annual quality health check reports, which help ensure the quality of data RSSB collects and uses, on behalf of the mainline industry, is reliable and improves over time. We also participate in the various RSSB-facilitated groups that oversee or make decisions about the mainline industry's standards and research. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_815.txt|Licence exemptions by company A-D This section lists railway licence exemptions for companies A – D. All copies of licence exemptions, granted by us are available in our public register . Abbreviations for terms used describing licence exemptions listed in this section: LMD: a light maintenance depot where services such as refuelling and cleaning trains takes place, and other frequent light maintenance work. Heritage: an operation primarily used for tourist, educational or recreational purposes of non-mainline passenger services and assets, usually on a preserved railway line. Network: a railway line or combination of lines and installations. Licence exempt networks are usually functionally separate from the national network. Usually they will also be operated within a fenced or controlled access territory. This includes freight sidings or goods terminals. Contractor: a rail maintenance company which undertakes track maintenance and repair, usually on behalf of Network Rail. Maintenance activities take place within engineering possessions using specialist or Rail Mounted Maintenance Vehicles (RMMVs). Non-passenger trains: freight or maintenance trains. In the context of exemptions, this would include short distance, non-mainline shunting operations in specific areas. All licence exemptions are published by, exemption title, description of exemption and the date it came into force. 
file_25.txt|Back to top Staff already in a qualifying pension scheme If you already have a qualifying pension scheme, you’ll still need to write to those staff who are in the scheme. This is to tell them about automatic enrolment and that they won’t be affected as they are already in your pension scheme. To write to staff who are eligible for automatic enrolment but who are already in your existing pension scheme use letter template 4 and its guidance below. Guidance for Letter template 4 (DOC, 33kb, 2 pages) The time limits for writing to your staff You must write to your staff within six weeks of your staging date. After staging, when automatic enrolment is business as usual, you must write within six weeks of the day a new staff member joins or becomes eligible to be automatically enrolled. The exception is for existing scheme members who must be contacted within two months. Sending the letters The information you send must be in writing, so you can send the letters by post or email. The letters must be sent individually. You can ask a third party, like your accountant or financial adviser to send the letters on your behalf, but it remains your responsibility to make sure the right information gets to the right member of staff at the right time. 
file_599.txt|Enforcement action taken Health and safety enforcement action taken Details of improvement notices and prohibition notices served by  inspectors, and details of prosecutions in England and Wales taken by inspectors and the Procurator Fiscal in Scotland. In England and Wales the decision whether to prosecute will take account of the full test set down by the Director of Public Prosecutions in the Code for Crown Prosecutors. No prosecution may go ahead unless the prosecutor finds there is sufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction, and decides that prosecution would be in the public interest. In Scotland, the Procurator Fiscal decides whether to bring a prosecution. This may be on the basis of a recommendation by an enforcing authority, although the Procurator Fiscal may investigate the circumstances and institute proceedings independently of an enforcing authority. The Crown Office and the Procurator Fiscal Service have endorsed our policy statement on enforcement pdf icon PDF, 228 Kb . Further details of enforcement notices we have issued and prosecutions that have resulted in a conviction can be found via the following links: 
file_631.txt|Signals passed at danger Signals passed at danger A signal passed at danger (SPAD) occurs when a train passes a stop signal without authority to do so. We provide a summary of the SPAD report quarterly in the National Rail Trends publication. Further information about SPADs While there are many SPADs each year, most of these have little or no potential to cause harm because they are the result of minor misjudgements of distance or of braking capability, or they occur at low speed. In most cases, the trains stop within the safety overlap provided at the signal. The overlap is a clear section of track beyond the signal, usually 183 metres long, which provides protection against relatively minor overruns. Generally, trains have to run past the signal safety overlap before there is any potential of collision or derailment. Can SPADs cause accidents? SPADs are only one of the potential precursors to catastrophic accidents on the railway.   Since the introduction of the train protection and warning system (TPWS) serious SPAD incidents and the risk arising from SPADs have been greatly reduced. What are we doing about SPADs? SPADs have always been of concern. We are continuing our efforts to reduce SPAD risk and numbers. There are many different ways of preventing SPADs or reducing their effects, including different types of train protection. What is train protection? This term covers equipment fitted to trains and on the track that reduces the consequences should a train pass a signal at danger, it does this by automatically applying a train's brakes. While such systems do not prevent SPADs, they do reduce the risks posed by SPADs. The train protection and warning system (TPWS) has been installed across the network and is successfully reducing SPAD risk. There have been a number of incidents where TPWS has intervened to avoid a potential collision. More information on the different types of protection available can be found in our train protection section. SPAD risk ranking Since March 2001, the industry has been assessing SPADs using a SPAD risk ranking (SRR) process, which considers the actual and possible consequences of each incident. The process results in SPADs being assigned a numerical ranking between 0 and 28. Those SPADs ranked at over 20 are those with the highest potential for serious consequences, while those between 16 and 19 are considered to have less serious potential. Those ranked from 1 to 15 carry little or no risk. Over the period March 2001 to September 2006, the implementation of TPWS together with other industry improvements and initiatives (such as the removal of Mark 1 rolling stock and greater use and understanding of human factors in SPAD management) brought about a significant reduction in SPAD risk of around 80%. September 2006 is taken to be new baseline for measuring SPAD risk, as it is representative of the system risk management in the post-TPWS implementation era. As of March 2013, the SRR process shows SPAD risk to have reduced further, with levels standing at around 60% of the September 2006 baseline. Further information is available on the Railway Safety and Standards Board website. SPAD investigation reports Following the Ladbroke Grove accident, HSE produced publicly available monthly SPAD reports, from October 1999 until September 2005. After that, Transport Ministers agreed that HSE should produce quarterly SPAD reports. We have taken over responsibility for this, and it was agreed with the Department for Transport and Ministers that these reports are no longer necessary because details are recorded in National Rail Trends, which Parliament is sent copies of. The Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) still publishes monthly publicly available SPAD reports. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_184.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) regulates a wide range of materials from medicines and medical devices to blood and therapeutic products/services that are derived from tissue engineering. This section helps describe how the MHRA manages each of these products, including the use of nanotechnology in some of them The main difference between how medicines and medical devices are regulated lies in how a product gets onto the market. All medicines are directly approved by the MHRA which issues a 'marketing  authorisation', or licence. Manufacturers and distributors are also licensed directly by MHRA. Medical devices are approved by private sector organisations called 'notified bodies'. Their approval is needed before a CE mark can be put on the device, though the manufacture of low risk devices is simply registered with the MHRA. The MHRA audits the performance of notified bodies. However: when a product is on the market and in use, there are more similarities than differences in the ways medicines and devices are regulated there are similar systems for receiving reports of problems with products and similar ways of issuing warnings if problems are confirmed after investigation there are also similar systems for inspection of manufacture to ensure that companies are complying with regulations, and similar ways of enforcing the law if that proves necessary. Further information on how we regulate medicines and medical devices is available in our publication: (894Kb) How we make regulatory decisions about medicines and medical devices The MHRA and other related organisations make a lot of regulatory decisions. After consulting with a range of stakeholders we have set out on five pages the main considerations that affect those decisions: 
file_621.txt|Asbestos Asbestos The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) and HSE's responsibilities for enforcing asbestos laws and what those laws require. Our asbestos law page gives a summary of the main legal requirements. Further detailed information on asbestos can also found on the HSE website . We are responsible for enforcing health and safety legislation for the operating railway by the Health and Safety (Enforcing Authority for Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems) Regulations 2006. This includes all the provisions of The Control of Asbestos Regulations 2012 (CAR) except for licensed work with asbestos. HSE enforcement responsibility for licensed work with asbestos The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) has retained responsibility for enforcement in respect of work with asbestos carried out under a licence, as well as the licensing process itself. Work with asbestos is one of the areas covered in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between HSE and ORR pdf icon PDF, 464 Kb , which provides for joint cooperation and technical support. ORR enforcement responsibility for unlicensed work with asbestos We have responsibility for enforcement in respect of unlicensed work with asbestos. This work should only involve the occasional exposure of employees to asbestos at a low level; this means that the risk assessment should show that exposure will not exceed the control limit . The work must be: short, non-continuous maintenance work; removal of materials in which the asbestos fibres are firmly enclosed in a matrix, for example asbestos cement; sealing of asbestos-containing materials which are in good condition; or collection and analysis of samples to ascertain whether a specific material contains asbestos. HSE has produced detailed guidance on safely undertaking unlicensed work with asbestos called asbestos essentials . This guidance also identifies work with asbestos that requires a licence. The 2012 CAR Regulations introduce new requirements for unlicensed work. From 6 April 2012 some types of this work needs to be notified to the relevant enforcing authority and a brief written record need to be kept, where control limits are likely to be exceeded. Details of the notification process and which work is covered can be found on HSE's website . ORR's enforcement responsibility for the duty to manage asbestos In all cases, dutyholders who have control of the maintenance or repair of premises, have a duty to manage asbestos in non-domestic premises so that it does not expose workers to asbestos and the risk of ill health. More information on the duty and its requirements can be found on the HSE website . We have published a guidance document pdf icon PDF, 46 Kb on our responsibilities and this covers where asbestos can be found on the railway. 'Premises' has a wide definition and includes all parts of the railway and any buildings therein. It also includes all trains and carriages. In many cases Network Rail will be the dutyholder but there will be cases either contractually or through a lease where the responsibility will pass partly or solely to those occupying or operating from a premise. In complex cases legal advice may be needed to determine responsibilities. Arranging an asbestos survey If you are not certain where asbestos is in your premises, you may wish to arrange for an asbestos survey to identify materials that contain it. HSE's website has information on selecting a competent surveyor. An accredited surveyor provides assurance of their competence and a list of surveyors can be found on the United Kingdom Accreditation Service website . ORR's enforcement responsibility for placing on the market articles containing asbestos We are an enforcing authority for restrictions on the placing on the market of articles containing asbestos under the REACH regime. REACH is a European Regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals. More information on REACH can be found on the HSE website . We also have the authority to issue asbestos exemption certificates. We do not enforce other aspects of REACH. We have authorised a general exemption for the placing on the market of railway vehicles and components of railway vehicles, which contain asbestos, and which were in service or installed before 1 January 2005. This exemption pdf icon PDF, 87 Kb came into effect on 17 February 2014. This will allow the controlled sale, lease or loan of second-hand railway vehicles and components which contain asbestos. Anyone wishing to operate under this exemption must be able to demonstrate that they have met the detailed conditions set out in the exemption. The exemption covers all railway systems for which we are normally the enforcing authority e.g. rail vehicles on the mainline, London Underground, light rail systems, tramways, Heritage Railway systems and some people-movers. Non-moving exhibits in museums are not within our remit and enquiries should be directed to HSE. Old asbestos exemptions issued by HSE under earlier legislation will shortly be revoked. For information on our new enforcement powers and on the conditions in the exemption please see our railway guidance document pdf icon PDF, 78 Kb . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_828.txt|On-train crowding Complaints and suggestions about crowding on trains Complaints about crowding on trains should first be addressed to the train operating company concerned. The train operator has a duty to respond to your concerns, explaining what went wrong and what they are doing to improve matters. If you remain dissatisfied you should contact Passenger Focus (for transport outside the London area) or London TravelWatch (for transport inside the London area) as appropriate. DfT monitors the levels of crowding at key stations and on the top 10 most crowded train services . They encourage train operating companies to plan their timetables to accommodate the passengers expected throughout the morning and evening peak periods. Separate regimes penalise operators for operating late trains or for services that do not meet the agreed timetable. However, there are some specific situations, such as emergency evacuations, where we take a close interest in ensuring railway operators have plans to adequately manage the risks – see our main crowding on trains section . Despite being uncomfortable, and at times making passengers feel unsafe, there is no conclusive evidence linking crowding on trains with anything other than low level health and safety risks to individual passengers. However, we continue to review the available evidence of links between overcrowded train and ill-health effects on passengers.  If, however, you feel that we should be aware of a particular crowding issue, please contact our Customer Correspondence Team with details. Your correspondence will be passed to our relevant safety team. 
file_733.txt|Network regulation / asset management Network regulation / asset management A key obligation for High Speed 1 (HS1) Limited in the concession agreement is the general duty concerning stewardship of the physical HS1 railway infrastructure. This requires HS1 Limited to secure the operation, maintenance, renewal, replacement and planning and carrying out of upgrades in accordance with best practice and in a timely, efficient and economical manner, to the greatest extent reasonably practicable having regard to all the circumstances. In complying with this stewardship duty, HS1 Limited must: establish and implement an asset management strategy; maintain accurate information about the condition, capability and capacity of its assets; and produce and update an asset register. This register should list all the HS1 network railway infrastructure assets and their condition, including renewal and replacement dates. HS1 Limited must also provide a series of statements setting how it will comply with its stewardship duty. These cover the policies and plans that it will follow for the life of the concession agreement and asset management statements for each control period . It must also produce annual statements detailing work done in the preceding year and work planned for the following year. We review these documents and can require HS1 Limited to repeat any part which we think does not satisfy its stewardship duty. We monitor to see if HS1 Limited is complying with its obligations generally and with its statements and strategies. If it fails to do so, we can take enforcement action . 
file_214.txt|Defibrillators. Devices in practice Devices in practice covers advice on procurement, safe use, record keeping, maintenance and repair, and sets out guidance for reporting device related adverse incidents. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Anaesthetic machines This educational package looks briefly at the history of the anaesthetic machine and then covers the basic principles involved in the safe use of anaesthetic machines. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this The operating table This educational package has been developed by the MHRA and is intended to be an overview of the operating table, its use and history, explaining the background and how and why the basic system works. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Basic observations This educational package has been produced as a helpful background to basic patient observations in the clinical workplace. It will be of use to all clinical staff as a reminder of best practice. The package covers basic observations, including taking a pulse, checking blood pressure, measuring respiratory rate and taking a temperature. Find out more about basic observations Electrosurgery This educational package has been developed by the MHRA with the help of the Royal College of Surgeons and is intended to be a guide through electrosurgical history, explaining the background, how and why the basic system works. Find out more about electrosurgery Defibrillators This educational package looks briefly at the history of external defibrillators, the various manual and automatic devices available and how they operate. This module does not cover implantable defibrillators and it is not a resuscitation training programme. 
file_852.txt|Prohibition notices Prohibition notices Our inspectors normally enforce health and safety standards by giving advice on how to comply with the law. Sometimes they must order people to make improvements by issuing them with a notice, for example a prohibition notice, which prohibits an activity until remedial action has been taken. We became the health and safety regulator for the rail industry in April 2006. We enforce health and safety legislation on the railways in England, Scotland and Wales. Prior to April 2006, the HSE enforced legislation on the railway and their notices can be found on the HSE website . Copies of prohibition notices issued by us can be found on our public register , and details are also listed by year on our website: 
file_604.txt|Advice and guidance Advice and guidance on workplace health Information is provided below for employers and employees on health in the work place generally, specific health issues, healthy lifestyles and managing health risks. This is not a full list of the help available but provides a range of useful information from Government departments, organisations and charities. Government Advice The Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) is leading a cross Government initiative to improve the health and well-being of working age people. This is also supported by the Department of Health, Health and Safety Executive (HSE), Scottish Government and Welsh Assembly Government. DWP promotes and provides information on health work and wellbeing including case studies. This work follows on from reports by Dame Carol Black, Working for a Healthier Tomorrow and co-written with David Frost CBE, Health at Work - A review of sickness absence . The Government's response to the recommendations in the second report  is set out in the report Fitness for Work . HSE gives advice and guidance on employer responsibilities for managing health generally and for specific occupational health diseases in the Government Regulators Information Point (GRIP) . They have recently developed new information on tackling occupational disease . The Department of Business Innovation and Skills (BIS) has been encouraging employee engagement building on the McLeod Report Engaging for success which clearly indicates employees performance, health and well-being improves where they are actively engaged in the operation of their organisation. . An NHS-funded service provides businesses in England with instant and free access to professional advice and information on a whole range of employee health and well-being at work issues - recognising that it is often small and medium-sized businesses that feel the burden of sickness absence. As well as, the Adviceline for small business helpline - 0800 0 77 88 44, there is the Health for Work Adviceline website. There are also NHS health working lives websites for Scotland and Wales . Wider stakeholder information Many non-profit making and charitable organisations also provide information on work and health. They include: Constructing Better Health who run the national scheme to manage occupational health in the construction industry . A number of member construction companies carry out renewals work on the railway; The Institution of Safety and Health (IOSH) provides an occupational health toolkit with information, guidance, factsheets, case studies, training materials and presentations to help with health issues; and The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development who have factsheets and information on health safety and wellbeing particularly on absence management and stress. 
file_776.txt|General information on our consideration of capacity and performance issues on the East Coast Main Line (ECML). Last updated - 11 July 2014 
file_833.txt|Complaints Complaints If you have a complaint relating to your experience when buying a ticket or travelling by rail, you should contact the relevant train company first, to give it the opportunity to respond. Separate information on complaints about the price of your train ticket or station car park is available. How to contact the relevant train company You can find a list of train companies on the National Rail Enquiry website , or you can phone National Rail Enquiries on: 08457 48 49 50 or National Rail Enquiries Textphone: 0845 60 50 600 (for customers with hearing impairments). Before contacting the train company, you might like to look at the websites of Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch , as their frequently asked questions and advice pages contain useful information that may help you when making a complaint. What happens if you are not happy with the response you get? If you are not satisfied with the response you receive from the train operating company or retailer, you can contact Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch, as appropriate, who may be able to assist you further. You should note that they cannot take up your complaint until you have contacted the relevant train company and given it a chance to respond first, and you should enclose all previous correspondence with the train company/retailer. What are my rights as a rail passenger? The National Rail Conditions of Carriage (NRCoC) set out your rights when travelling by rail on the National Rail Network. If you are travelling to Europe by rail, please check with the company if other terms apply to the international part of your journey. Individual train companies may give you more extensive rights than those set out in the NRCoC. These may be found in the relevant train company's Passenger's Charter or other publications. The relevant train company will be able to advise you of these, or you can often find them on its website. You should also be aware of the terms and conditions of the ticket type you are using – Anytime, Off-Peak or Advance – as these vary. Details of these ticket types and their terms and conditions can be found on the National Rail website. Health and safety complaints Complaints regarding health and safety on the railways can be sent to our customer correspondence team , which will forward your complaint to the relevant railway safety team member. If you are a railway company employee and have a health and safety complaint that has not been successful with your manager, with the unions or with CIRAS , you may contact us and we will forward your complaint to the appropriate railway safety team member. Your confidentiality will be protected if you so request Complaints about Network Rail You should try to resolve your complaint with Network Rail in the first instance. However we provide information on what Network Rail are responsible for and how you can make an complaint or enquiry . Please note that Network Rail's licence is deliberately designed so that our regulatory controls are at a high level, rather than at ground level. Because of this we are unlikely to be able to intervene in many individual complaints from members of the public. If, however, there is an issue that you feel we should be made aware of, you are welcome to submit your concerns to our customer correspondence team . Competition complaints We enforce the Competition Act 1998 in the railway sector. The Competition Act outlaws any agreements, business practices or conduct which has, or could have, a damaging effect on competition in the United Kingdom. This includes abuse by a company which uses its dominant position in a way that damages competition. Where conduct has an effect on trade between member states we will apply Articles 101 and 102 of the European Treaty. Read more information about the Competition Act . Complaints about us Our Customer correspondence team (CCT) Our customer correspondence team handle all complaints that come to us. Last updated - 31 October 2014 
file_167.txt|Step 1 of 2: Reporter Details Reporter details Reporter details Are you a member of the public, a healthcare professional, a manufacturer, marketing authorisation holder, or other? Position/Status 
file_67.txt|Detailed guidance Key points Ensure key information is communicated to scheme members regularly to keep them informed and to enable them to make decisions. Ensure communications are accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. What to communicate to members You may issue communications on behalf of trustees or you may be asked by trustees to help them provide information to members. Make sure that certain information is communicated to members. This includes: basic information within two months of the member joining, or one month if they have been automatically enrolled – including an explanation of lifestyling where it is offered by the scheme, when it is likely to be adopted, and outlining its advantages and disadvantages a statutory money purchase illustration showing, for example, the member’s projected pension and an annual benefit statement providing details of contributions credited to the member in the preceding scheme year certain documents on request, eg trustees annual report, scheme rules, statement of investment principles, and ad hoc benefit statements and transfer values where the scheme offers lifestyling, an explanation of it and when it is likely to be adopted (or if it has been adopted) five to 15 years before a member retires, and its advantages and disadvantages information about selecting an annuity from an insurance company of the member’s choice (the open market option) at least four months before their expected retirement date information when other specific events happen, eg when a member leaves the scheme or the scheme winds up. You should also ensure that scheme members receive information about: their current investment strategy and why they need to review the suitability of their investment choices how their level of contributions is a key factor in determining the overall size of their pension fund costs and charges. Back to top Providing good quality communications The retirement outcome that a member receives is more likely to be improved when they engage on key issues. Your client should make sure that communications meet the needs of members from when they join the scheme until when they retire. Many members have little or no interest in their pension until they reach retirement. Therefore, your client should ensure that member communications are accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. Focus on providing the right information, at the right time using the right channel. Consider how best to use resources such as a scheme website, email, the company intranet, webinars and podcasts, mobile phone applications and text messages. You and / or the trustees should work with the employer. For instance, you may wish to issue joint communications from the employer and the trustee. Planning Encourage trustees to document their approach to communications in a plan. This could set out communication objectives, how they will be achieved and who is responsible for the different aspects of communications. Monitoring Ensure your client reviews scheme communications regularly, eg once a year, and when legislation changes. Monitor how effective they are in achieving their objectives and take action when they don’t meet their objectives. Ensure that the trustees include member communications as an item in their risk register. Go to risk management . 
file_890.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_271.txt|Error: Page cannot be displayed Unfortunately the page you are looking for has not been found on our website. Please use the back button on your browser and try again or use our: Alternatively, you may be able to find an archived version of this page in the National Archives (external link) If you need any assistance please contact our Web Team by emailing webupdates@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Please help us improve our website by reporting technical problems using our online Technical feedback form 
file_120.txt|Issued:December 2008 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals - Trustees This guidance outlines how trustees should deal with a proposal which involves the abandonment of a defined benefit pension scheme.... Issued:November 2013 Relevant for: Professionals - Trustees This guidance is based on the regulator’s recent experience in relation to asset-backed contributions and sets out our expectations of trustees when considering such arrangements.... Issued:March 2010 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals - Trustees This guidance provides support to trustees and employers when dealing with events that may impact upon their pension scheme, and when there is an application for a clearance statement.... Issued:October 2008 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals - Trustees This guidance aims to provide educational support for trustees and employers for addressing conflicts of interest. You can read a summary version or the full guidance... Issued:June 2009 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals The role of the employer and what they need to think about in relation to their scheme if considering a corporate transaction.... Issued:December 2005 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals - Trustees This guidance sets out the application process for authorisation and approval from the Pensions Regulator for trustees to accept contributions in respect of European members.... Issued:November 2013 Relevant for: Professionals - Trustees This regulatory guidance is issued by The Pensions Regulator to help trustees to meet the standards of practice that we believe form the basis of quality governance and administration in occupational defined contribution (DC) trust-based pension schemes.... Issued:July 2012 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals - Trustees The regulator has reviewed its guidance and replaced it with a short principles-based statement for employers considering an incentive exercise, the trustees of the affected defined benefit schemes and those who advise them.... Issued:June 2006 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals - Trustees Trustees may need to know whether lump sum death benefits can be provided from their scheme or whether a separate scheme, which only provides these benefits, should be set up.... Issued:September 2008 Relevant for: Professionals - Trustees This guidance outlines how trustees should go about deciding on mortality assumptions in an actuarial valuation for a defined benefit pension scheme... Issued:November 2010 Relevant for: Professionals - Trustees This guidance is for trustees and managers of all occupational pension schemes with a DB element and sets out practice that we expect trustees to follow in assessing, monitoring and taking action on employer covenant.... Issued:July 2012 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals - Trustees This guidance is to help trustees and employers of multi-employer schemes understand the different mechanisms by which an employer can depart from the scheme.... Issued:June 2010 Relevant for: Professionals - Trustees This guidance describes an approach that we consider to be good practice for measuring the presence of member data items which are important in the administration of a pension scheme... Issued:May 2008 Relevant for: Professionals - Trustees This best practice guidance sets out some key issues for trustees to consider in their relations with advisers... Issued:June 2009 Relevant for: Employers - Professionals - Trustees These scheme funding case studies (original versions published in 'scheme funding: an analysis of recovery plans' in December 2008) demonstrate how the regulator, employers and trustees have worked together to resolve funding issues.... 
file_864.txt|Public register Public register We grant licences to operators of railway assets and approve access to the railway track, stations and depots. Copies of approved licences, access contracts and associated documents are placed on our electronic public register. There is no charge to access the database and all documents on the register can be downloaded free of charge. Enter our public register database If you cannot find the documents that you need or have any other queries regarding access please contact the Information centre . For further details about the information we make public please refer to our publication scheme . Last updated - 7 May 2014 
file_462.txt|Impact assessments are an important tool that regulators and central government use when developing policy. An impact assessment is both: A continuous process to help think through the reasons for intervention, to weigh up various options for achieving an objective and to understand the consequences of a proposed intervention; and A tool to be used to help develop policy by assessing and presenting the likely costs and benefits and the associated risks of a proposal that might have an impact on the public, private or third sector, the environment and wider society over the long term. We are committed to consistency and transparency in our decision-making and, as a matter of good practice, we adopt the government's impact assessment approach, where appropriate to do so. The government's guidance was produced by the Better Regulation Executive. We also follow the principles in the HMT Green Book and Department for Transport's Transport Analysis Guidance ( WebTAG ). Last updated - 15 April 2014 
file_435.txt|
file_646.txt|Occupational health strategy Occupational health strategy We have taken up the railway industry's views expressed in the Evaluation Report of ORR's Occupational Health programme 2010-14 about more being needed on strategic direction. This has included revision of the occupational health chapter pdf icon PDF, 275 Kb in our strategic risk document and the development of four position papers on the key health risks in the railway industry. They are on stress pdf icon PDF, 1,006 Kb , asbestos pdf icon PDF, 209 Kb , hand arm vibration syndrome pdf icon PDF, 217 Kb (HAVS) and musculoskeletal disorders pdf icon PDF, 698 Kb (MSDs). They set the direction where we would want the railway industry to be by 2019. Last updated - 5 December 2014 
file_355.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_449.txt|What we do What we do We regulate the rail industry's health and safety performance, we hold Network Rail and High Speed 1 (HS1) to account and we make sure that the rail industry is competitive and fair. Our functions Our safety and economic functions are driven by EU and UK legislation – and we are accountable to Parliament and the courts. This section provides an overview of our role. Read more about our functions The law and our duties We operate within the framework set by UK and European legislation and we are accountable through Parliament and the courts In this section you can find details of our statutory duties and the relevant legislation. Read more about the law and our duties Vision and strategy Our vision is that Britain's railways should deliver safety, performance and efficiency equivalent to the best comparable railways in the world. Here you can find out about our vision and our strategy on how we propose to deliver this. Read more about our vision and strategy How we work We plan our annual activities in the context of our long-term vision for the railways, based on our strategic objectives as an independent regulator. Here you can read our business plan, how we handle parliamentary accountability and our role in sustainable development. 
file_974.txt|Authorised Business Register Authorised Business Register You can use this search to find businesses that are, or have previously been, authorised    by the Regulator to provide claims management services. Only businesses that have been authorised by the Ministry of Justice are legally     allowed to provide regulated claims management services. Authorisation does not mean that a business is recommended or endorsed by the      Ministry of Justice. If a claims management business has told you that it is recommended or endorsed     by the Ministry of Justice please report this to us here . You can search by business name, trading name or authorisation number, and the search    result will list any businesses that may match your search criteria. The search facility also finds businesses that have been authorised by the Regulator    in the past but whose authorisation is now suspended, cancelled or surrendered.    Consumers who have an agreement with a claims management business that has had its    authorisation suspended or cancelled should read our Consumer Factsheet â€“ suspended or cancelled business. Consumers who have followed a link from another website to arrive at this site may    wish to visit our ' For     Consumers ' page for advice on using claims management services, and on handling    problems with claims management businesses. Search (leave blank for all businesses) Name of Business / Individual 
file_778.txt|West Coast Main Line West Coast Main Line This page contains our consideration of capacity and performance issues on this line together with competing applications for track access. Background Since the spring of 2010, we have been working with the industry on the long-term allocation of capacity on the West Coast Main Line ("WCML"). In 2010, anticipating both the existing Virgin West Coast franchise and the associated track access contract held by West Coast Trains Limited expiring on 1 April 2012, we: asked Network Rail to produce a capacity and performance report analysing operators' stated aspirations, requested and then considered a number of applications for new or additional access rights, and issued our decision on 2 March 2011. In summary, we decided to approve a new ten-year track access contract for the West Coast franchise (carrying forward broadly the existing level of access rights) and to reject the other applications that had been made. This was because we believed that the most efficient way to allocate capacity in  the long-term would be for Network Rail to carry out a more thorough re-examination of the WCML timetable, in light of planned infrastructure improvements, before any significant new rights were approved. Process for current applications On 1 October 2012 we wrote to a number of stakeholders to set out how we planned to take forward our consideration of competing applications for track access rights on the WCML, for the period post-December 2013. On 3 October, the Department for Transport announced that it had rescinded its decision  to award the long term franchise for the West Coast to First Group. Notwithstanding the delay in the award of the new long-term franchise, the need for us to understand the potential effect on capacity of competing current and expected applications remains. On 19 December 2012 we issued a further letter,  detailing the process we would be adopting, and the information we required from Network Rail to inform our analysis. 
file_477.txt|Passenger transport executives Passenger transport executives There are six main metropolitan areas outside London which have Passenger transport executives (PTE). There is also Strathclyde Partnership for Transport (SPT) which was formed by bringing together Strathclyde Passenger Transport Authority and Executive and the WESTRANS voluntary partnership. London has Transport for London which implements the Mayor of London's transport strategy and manages transport services across the capital. The responsibilities of PTEs Passenger transport authorities are responsible for setting out transport policy and public transport expenditure plans in their regions. These are implemented by PTEs. PTEs have the power to secure passenger rail services in their areas, contracting with the local franchised passenger train operators to provide additional services. PTEs also do the following: produce the strategies for the development of local public transport networks; manage and plan local rail services (in partnership with the DfT); plan and fund socially necessary bus routes; work in partnership with private operators to improve bus services - for example through bus priority schemes; run concessionary travel schemes - including those for older, disabled and young people; invest in local public transport networks - including new rail and bus stations; develop and promote new public transport schemes - like light rail and guided bus networks; provide impartial and comprehensive public transport information services - including by phone and internet; and manage and maintain bus interchanges, bus stops and shelters. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_982.txt|Back You can contact us about these consultations, or any other aspect of our work, at: Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation Spring Place Coventry Business Park Herald Avenue Coventry CV5 6UB Switchboard: 0300 303 3344 (Lines are open Monday to Friday, 9.00am to 5.00pm) Helpline: 0300 303 3346 (Lines are open Monday to Friday, 9.00am to 5.00pm) Textphone: 0300 303 3345 Fax: 0300 303 3348 Email: public.enquiries@ofqual.gov.uk Press office: 0300 303 3342 Ofqual Northern Ireland Our Northern Ireland office can be contacted at: Ofqual 2nd Floor Glendinning House 6 Murray Street Belfast BT1 6DN Switchboard: 028 9033 0706 (Lines are open Monday to Friday, 9.00am to 5.00pm) Textphone: 0300 303 3345 Fax: 028 9023 1621 
file_145.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site How we regulate and enforce The regulatory powers now available to The Pensions Regulator enable us to be more effective at dealing with risks to pension schemes and members' benefits, and to tackle these risks in a focused, targeted and proportionate manner. 
file_441.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_983.txt|News Back Comment on the work that we do by reading and responding to our consultations. Thank you for taking the time to consider reading and responding to Ofqual’s consultation(s). A list of all our consultations that are open to responses can be found below. You can respond online using the form provided, by completing the form by hand or downloading a version that can be completed using a word processing program. Please feel free to respond to as few or as many questions as you wish. The deadline for receipt of responses is 5pm on the closing date given for each consultation. Responses not submitted through the online platform can be returned by email to consultations@ofqual.gov.uk or by post to Consultations, Ofqual, Spring Place, Herald Avenue, Coventry CV5 6UB. 
file_712.txt|Efficiency and financial assessment of Network Rail Efficiency and financial assessment of Network Rail © Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_558.txt|Director of Railway Safety’s overview Director of Railway Safety’s overview An overview of health and safety on Britain's railways in 2013-14 from our Director of Railway Safety. In many ways we have seen positive improvements to health and safety on Britain's railways in 2013-14. The risk from train accidents reduced over the year and for the seventh consecutive year there were no related passenger fatalities. The level of harm to passengers from all types of accidents declined. The number of trespass fatalities decreased in 2013-14. For the first year since records began there were no passenger train derailments. There were also no industry-caused fatalities on Transport for London's managed infrastructure. These are all welcome developments. However, our assessment of the overall mainline system risk over 2013-14 shows that the improving trend over the last few years has slowed – it was static over the period covered by this report. Similarly, the industry's level of management maturity over 2013-14 showed only gradual improvements. We are some way from excellence in health and safety management and a mature risk control and asset management culture. This report shows a mixed picture of actual and potential injuries to people across the industry. It is with great sadness that we should look back on a year where three mainline track workers lost their lives while at or travelling from work. These tragic events were avoidable. We have also seen an increase in the risk to mainline infrastructure workers. Set against this, we have seen reductions in risk to passengers and the wider public according to industry-measured risk, using the fatality and weighted injury (FWI) index, a weighted way of measuring actual harm. In 2013-14 we saw that: passenger harm reduced 9%; and harm to the public (excluding suicides or suspected suicides) reduced 28%. However we have seen increases in workforce and infrastructure worker harm: workforce harm increased 10%; and infrastructure worker harm increased 22%. There are particular risk areas from across the sector which this report highlights: station safety: the industry has worked hard to make getting on and off trains safer over the year, but overall harm to passengers at the interface between the platform, train and track increased. Longer-term station management and engineering solutions will help, but as passenger numbers grow and station improvements continue this remains a risk management priority in the short-term; signals passed at danger: the number of signals passed at danger (SPAD) on the mainline network has increased – in some categories to a seven year high but overall level of SPAD risk has remained broadly static. We continue to challenge train operators' driver management processes and their approach to upgrading train protection systems, to reduce the risks from SPADs; mainline workforce safety: the trend in infrastructure worker FWI harm is now at its highest-level for seven years. We have taken, or are in the process of taking, enforcement action where appropriate. Progress to introduce new technology to remove or reduce such risk has been too slow. Dutyholders clearly need to improve the management of occupational road safety and initiatives to achieve this are discussed in this report; occupational health: industry improvements were made during the course of our 2009-14 occupational health programme but part of the industry's management of occupational health remains worse than comparable sectors. Leadership and policy improvements made at senior management-levels have yet to filter down and drive on-the-ground improvements; infrastructure risk: Network Rail's management of infrastructure risk showed some evidence of improvement but not in all areas. We took enforcement action because we found evidence of weaknesses in some asset management areas, such as increases in the proportion of repeat track twist faults and electrical earthing of signal cabinets; level crossings: risk reduction continues to improve with a 12% reduction in FWI harm. However, the proportion of fatalities at pedestrian user-worked crossings increased in 2013-14, showing the need to improve user understanding. We found that Network Rail's new dedicated crossing managers have contributed to the overall improvement in risk management by delivering better individual crossing risk assessments; and safety-by-design: our enforcement action in April 2014 identified underperformance by Network Rail in seizing risk removal and reduction opportunities. The industry is some way off the pace compared to other sectors, such as the UK petro-chemical industry, in considering if risks can be reduced or removed at the project design stage. The large programme of renewals and enhancements across CP5 provides a significant opportunity for the industry to address this and we aim to ensure dutyholders consider safety-by-design as a matter of course. Our determination for CP5 set aside specific funding for Network Rail to address key mainline safety issues on worker safety, civil structures, and level crossings. It is now up to the sector to deliver. Suicide prevention is an area where Network Rail, has shown strong leadership collaborating closely with other partners including the Samaritans. Therefore, it is with sadness that I note the total of trespass, suicide and suspected suicide fatalities reached their highest-level for over a decade – even though this aligns broadly with national and international suicide rates. Transport for London has maintained a high-level of safety for its passengers and workforce as passenger numbers and services grow. However, we found only marginal improvements in risk management maturity. Passenger congestion at stations continues to pose a significant challenge as the Tube's modernisation programme progresses. We continued to discuss health and safety matters with the railway's trade unions at our liaison meetings throughout the year. The front-line insight and perspective they provide forms part of our overall evidence picture for the industry and helps set our improvement priorities. We have responded to the risks highlighted in this report by establishing four dedicated Network Rail-focused teams in 2014-15 to look at: level crossings; track; civil structures; and electrical and workforce safety. These align with the safety-targeted funding included in our final CP5 determination to: improve the protection and warning provided to those on or about the track, taking of electrical isolations, introduction of better and safer road-rail vehicles and continued level crossing safety risk reductions. Our train operator, metro, heritage, and Transport for London (TfL) teams are focused on their specific key risk areas such as station, passenger and workforce safety. ORR resources: over 2013-14 we utilised 132 full-time equivalents to discharge our health and safety responsibilities to deliver of strategic objective of driving for a safer railway (46% of our total office resource) We will continue to monitor the changing profile of the risk landscape and reflect any changes to our approach in our strategy for regulation of health and safety risks and future business plans, in order to deliver our 'drive for a safer railway' overall strategic objective. Finally, I want to pay tribute to Bob Crow who led the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers for over a decade and his dedication to improving railway safety until his untimely death on 11 March 2014. On a happier note, I want to record the richly deserved awarding of an M.B.E to Tina Hughes in the recent Queen's Birthday Honours' list. Tina's daughter Olivia Bazlington and her friend Charlotte Thompson were killed when struck by a train at Elsenham station crossing in 2005. Hearing Tina speak about her personal experience of that incident is undeniably moving and her important work with Network Rail has demonstrably helped to make Britain's level crossings safer. Ian Prosser, Director of Railway Safety, ORR Last updated - 29 August 2014 
file_94.txt|Maintaining contributions As a trustee of a defined contribution (DC) pension scheme you have a specific role to play in ensuring that contributions to the scheme are paid. You need to make sure you know and understand what your duties are and act upon them. You need to ensure that contributions and financial transactions are handled promptly and accurately in the defined contribution scheme that you run. Share this page using: 
file_547.txt|Annual safety reports Mainline transport operators annual safety reports Any mainline transport operator who holds a safety certificate or safety authorisation must send us an annual report on their safety performance. Mainline transport operators annual safety reports Under Regulation 20 of the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS), mainline transport operators who are required to have a safety certificate or safety authorisation must prepare an annual safety report (ASR) relating to the previous calendar year and send it to us by 30 June of the following year. We have worked closely with dutyholders and the Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) to establish a process, resulting in the production of updated guidance for mainline operators pdf icon PDF, 147 Kb and a standard template which dutyholders are encouraged to use for their reports relating to the 2014 calendar year. The common safety method (CSM) for risk evaluation and assessment requires mainline transport operators to report briefly on their experience with the application of the CSM. The report must also include details of the decisions related to the level of significance of the changes. The CSM for monitoring (Commission Regulation 1078/2012) applies from 7 June 2013. It requires mainline transport operators to report briefly on their experience with the application of the CSM. Entities in charge of maintenance (ECMs) for freight wagons must also report in their annual maintenance report their experience of applying the CSM for monitoring. Last updated - 12 November 2014 
file_936.txt|Rail regulator issues new guidance for train companies on protecting interests of disabled passengers Rail regulator issues new guidance for train companies on protecting interests of disabled passengers 23 December 2014 The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) has issued new guidance for train operators to help ensure they meet disabled people's protection policy (DPPP) requirements. Train operators are required to have an approved DPPP as part of their licence to operate. DPPPs must provide details of how train companies will protect the interests of disabled users of their trains and stations such as explaining how disabled people will be assisted when train service disruptions occur with little or no notice. ORR has conducted a preliminary review of DPPPs, which has raised questions about how policies may be applied in practice and whether they are detailed enough. As a result, the independent regulator is asking train operators to review, and where necessary, change their policies in light of the guidance. Operators must agree DPPPs with ORR by 23 January 2015, with plans taking effect by 31 March 2015. To read the letter in full, see: http://orr.gov.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0006/16377/dppp-compliance-and-approval-process.pdf To know more about how ORR is working to make rail traveleasily accessible to all, visit: http://orr.gov.uk/info-for-passengers/passengers-with-disabilities 
file_369.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_885.txt|Agreed amendments to contracts (Section 22) Agreed amendments to contracts (Section 22) This page contains all ORR decisions made in the last six months relating to agreed amendments to current Track Access Contracts. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . 2014 decisions 
file_969.txt|Executive summary Purpose of intervention The purpose of this intervention was to undertake inspections and information exchange meetings at EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited’s [NGL’s] Hunterston B [HNB] power station in line with the planned inspection programme contained in the HNB Integrated Intervention Strategy [IIS]. Interventions Carried Out by ONR As part of this intervention, I held undertook a review of lessons learned from the Reactor 4 statutory outage. I undertook a planned compliance inspection against Licence Condition 11 during which I participated in an annual review of emergency arrangements. I represented ONR at an annual information exchange meeting with   l’Inspecteur Général pour la Sûreté Nucléaire [IGSN] to give ONR’s view on fleet safety performance. I met with the head of Independent Nuclear Assurance [INA] for Region 1 to discuss INA’s initial proposals for influencing appropriate learning from recent outage related events across the fleet. Explanation of Judgement if Safety System Not Judged to be Adequate No safety case informed system based inspection was undertaken during this intervention. Key Findings, Inspector's Opinions and Reasons for Judgements Made I presented to Hunterston B my perspective on the quality of ONR-NGL interactions during the Reactor 4 statutory outage, and the extent to which lessons learned from previous outage seasons had been addressed. I undertook a compliance inspection against Licence Condition 11, and made the following judgements for compliance [the inspection excluded aspects of LC11(5) since the Level 1 demonstration is scheduled for March 2015]: I judged the station’s mentoring guide to be a mature development that effectively and succinctly captures evidence of completed training profiles and demonstrable competence for individual staff with emergency preparedness roles. I undertook an inspection of the Access Control Point and station garage against INA’s referential document. There is clear evidence of financial and resource investment by the station on emergency equipment and facilities, notably the order of a new fire tender and maintenance of a damage control vehicle. I observed that the station has made adequate progress against commitments made in the Emergency Arrangements Annual Report published in April 2014. In particular, participation in the regional Operation Contest meeting [chaired by a Police Superintendent] is providing the station with enhanced multi-agency table-top exercises; the station considers these exercises are helping to better define primacy of command between the station and the police service during emergency [particularly security] exercises. I attended the annual emergency arrangements review meeting; this was previously titled the ‘exercise review meeting’ but amended following discussions with ONR to better reflect the more holistic nature of the meeting. The station summarised its emergency arrangements performance noting specific progress in integration of counter-terrorism preparedness in station arrangements. Hunterston B has adequately addressed my recommendations from the 2014 Level 1 exercise ‘Dundonald’. Overall I judged the developments in emergency preparedness at Hunterston B with respect to training, equipment and facility investment and coordination with emergency services to represent a ‘Good’ standard. Accordingly I award an IIS rating of ‘2 – Good’. I represented ONR at a meeting with the l’Inspecteur Général pour la Sûreté Nucléaire [IGSN]. I presented an update on developments in ONR since vesting as a statutory corporation and an overall perspective on the safety performance of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Ltd. I met with the head of Independent Nuclear Assurance [INA] for Region 1 to discuss INA’s initial proposals for influencing appropriate learning from recent outage related events across the fleet. INA has proposed an outline programme of work to influence promulgation of fleet learning in time for a busy 2015 outage season: INA will assist in the development of terms of reference for a fleet Mandatory evaluation [MEVL] process to commence after 16/10/2014 and participate in the subsequent fleet Corrective Action Review Board. INA proposes to review an existing Procedural Use & Adherence [PU&A] surveillance programme. Working Time Directive / fatigue management. INA proposes to review the structure and focus of outage Rapid Trending Review Plant status & configuration control In my opinion, INA has proposed credible initial proposals by which to influence learning from the recent outage related event at Hunterston B. INA has committed to develop these proposals in greater detail in time for the next Regulatory Interface Meeting. ONR oversight of INA’s work should form an integral component of further regulatory intervention in light of the recent gas circulator event at Hunterston B. The intervention was performed in line with ONR’s guidance requirements (as described in our technical inspection guides ) in the areas inspected. Further information on intervention ratings Conclusion of Intervention I am satisfied that the arrangements and their implementation at Hunterston B for LC11 are to a good standard and judge that the outcome of the sample inspection undertaken met with the expectations detailed within ONR guidance.  I have therefore rated this element of my intervention an Integrated Intervention Strategy (IIS) rating of 2, good. 
file_141.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Ensure your DB scheme is run and funded effectively Our revised defined benefit (DB) code has now come into force. You should use the code to ensure your DB pension scheme is run and funded effectively in order to meet its promises. The code emphasises the importance of trustees and employers working together to strike a balance which supports both the scheme's aim to provide pensions for members and the employer's need to invest in sustainable business growth. It also focuses on taking an integrated approach to managing the main risks that influence a scheme’s chances of paying its benefits in full. Trustees, employers and professionals from the wider pension community should familiarise themselves with the revised code to ensure that it’s implemented in a balanced way for their scheme. If you’re currently undertaking a scheme valuation you should consider whether it’s in line with the principles of the updated code. Trustees You should work openly and transparently with the sponsoring employer to ensure your scheme is run and funded effectively. In order to have the best chance to be in a position to pay members' benefits, you will need to manage risks to the scheme and understand how they affect each other. 
file_765.txt|Disputed amendment to contracts (Section 22a) Disputed amendment to contracts (Section 22a) This page contains all ORR decisions made in the last six months relating to contested applications for the amendment of current Track Access Contracts. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . Date 
file_102.txt|Independent trustee register Closing your DC scheme If you need to close the defined contribution scheme that you run, you must wind it up efficiently and properly. On this page Key points Notify us that you are winding up your defined contribution (DC) scheme. Submit a winding-up report if your scheme has not fully wound up two years after wind-up was triggered. Complete at least the key wind-up activities within two years of starting the process. Deciding whether to close your scheme You and/or the employer may decide that you should close the scheme for a number of reasons. For example, you may assess your scheme against our 31 DC quality features and decide that the best course of action is to close it. For more information about using the DC quality features, go to checking you run a quality DC scheme . If your scheme offers poor value for money, you may also consider closing it. Go to value for money . You should also be aware when compulsory winding up of the scheme can be triggered, eg the scheme rules may require the scheme to be wound up if no participating employer remains or The Pensions Regulator may direct you to do so. Back to top Notifying the regulator If you decide to wind up your scheme, you must notify The Pensions Regulator. You can notify us using Exchange . If the scheme has not fully wound up two years after wind-up was triggered, you must submit a winding-up report. You can submit the report using Exchange . 
file_941.txt|unknown Cookies for improving service We use a number of suppliers who may also set cookies on their websites' behalf. This includes Google Analytics to measure and analyse information about the use of this website. Read Google's cookies policy and their privacy policy . The analytics tools use cookies to provide statistical information about visits to pages and other information relating to usage of this website including the IP address of visitors and data about your browser type and computer operating system. The information gathered does not contain any personal information about you. More about cookies It is possible to configure your web browser to refuse cookies or to be informed if a cookie is set. Please refer to your web browser help files for instructions. You can manage these small files and learn more about them from the GOV.UK help page on cookies . If you'd like to know how to remove cookies set on your device, visit: Our use of cookies Further information Cookies and EU law The law applying to cookies and similar technologies for storing information on websites changed on 26 May 2012. The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) therefore has a new cookies policy and an improved way of letting you know when we use cookies during your visit to our site. A cookie is stored on a users' computer or device (such as a mobile phone), when you visit a website. It is used to recognise any repeat visits you make and to provide a better user experience. The cookie cannot be used to identify you personally. The new law (e-Privacy Directive) requires all websites operating in the European Union (EU) to obtain consent from users before implementing cookies to capture online visitor information. Essentially, this means cookies can only be placed on machines if the user or subscriber has opted-in. The ORR has complied with this law and now asks users permission to place cookies on their device. 
file_585.txt|Investigating incidents Investigating health and safety incidents How we respond to accidents and incidents on the railways, including our relationship to the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB). Safety is a fundamental issue for the rail industry ensuring that both workers and passengers are protected. Our regulatory powers require us to investigate breaches of health and safety legislation. Reporting RIDDOR incidents An overview of the types of incidents that need to be reported and how they can be reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 (RIDDOR 2013). Read more about reporting RIDDOR incidents How we investigate incidents How we are informed when a serious incident occurs and how we work with other bodies in the railway to find out what has happened and why. 
file_440.txt|Cymraeg Open board meetings The HSE open board meetings take place at various locations, throughout the year. This is your chance to see and hear what is going on at board level in HSE. Open board meetings Welsh language scheme The Welsh language scheme has been prepared with the Welsh Language Board, to exercise the principle established by the Welsh Language Act that English and Welsh should be treated on the basis of equality. 
file_674.txt|Efficiency benchmarking of Network Rail Efficiency benchmarking of Network Rail The assessment of the scope for Network Rail to improve on its cost efficiency is central to our work, since it enables us to establish efficient levels of track access charges when we periodically review Network Rail's outputs as part of a balanced package. The use of international benchmarking is necessary as Network Rail is a national network monopoly, and hence there are no straightforward direct domestic comparators we can compare it to. The international group of railway infrastructure managers we use in our efficiency analysis is made up of European mainline rail infrastructure managers. Our analysis of Network Rail builds on our work from the 2008 periodic review (PR08), which set Network Rail's outputs and funding levels for control period 4 (CP4). Comparing Network Rail's maintenance and renewal cost efficiency directly with that of other rail infrastructure managers shows, at least partially, how the company is progressing on its cost efficiency over time against the base assumption we made in PR08 that the company should be able to improve on the efficiency of its controllable operating, maintenance, and renewal costs by at least 21% over the five years covered by CP4. The 2013 periodic review (PR13) developed the approach used in PR08 by drawing on recent developments in the literature on efficiency benchmarking and employing a wider range of models. We also opted to present the results of a set of four models: we considered all of these models to be sufficiently robust from an econometric and engineering perspective, and to provide a reasonable model of a reality which is fundamentally unknown. Rather than choosing one of these specifications as the "preferred" approach, we instead accepted that there is inherent uncertainty as to the true model and have carried all of these models through to our results. The analysis produced a distribution of possible efficiency gaps for Network Rail in 2010 ranging from 13% to 24%. We intend to carry out an update of our econometric benchmarking work each year, because regular updates provide important cost efficiency information to us, Network Rail, and interested stakeholders. Econometric benchmarking PR13 Econometric benchmarking using the LICB Our PR13 econometric analysis used a subset of the Lasting Infrastructure Cost Benchmarking (LICB) dataset developed and maintained by the International Union of Railways (UIC) for 14 European rail infrastructure managers, including Network Rail, covering the period 1996 to 2008. We are very grateful to the UIC, its members, and Network Rail for making the dataset available and for the discussions and presentations we had with Network Rail and the UIC. This paper documents the process followed to reach the international top down benchmarking results documented in the 2013 Periodic Review Draft Determination. It records ORR's work on improving the quality and reliability of our econometric estimates of Network Rail's efficiency gap, and the steps taken to address questions put forward by Network Rail and recommendations from reviews of the 2008 Periodic Review (PR08) work. Download PR13 Efficiency Benchmarking of Network Rail using LICB pdf icon PDF, 1,565 Kb We have commissioned a peer review of this work by Dr. Michael Pollitt at the Judge Business School, University of Cambridge. His comments on this process are available below. Download Peer Review of: ORR's PR13 Efficiency Benchmarking of Network Rail using LICB pdf icon PDF, 74 Kb Updates to PR08 econometric benchmarking using the LICB Our 2010 update included extensive econometric model development and sensitivity testing. Our results showed that, in 2008, Network Rail was between 34 to 40% less cost-efficient than the top European infrastructure managers in the peer group. This result broadly confirms the econometric analysis we undertook in PR08 which showed that, compared to the top European infrastructure managers, Network Rail was around 40% less cost-efficient. By comparison with the best 25% of international companies, the cost efficiency difference for Network Rail is 29 to 37%, considering the full sample of international comparators over thirteen years from 1996 to 2008 inclusive. This represents an improvement against our PR08 econometric modelling results, where we estimated that there was a difference of 37% measured from the overall frontier made up of the best 25% of international comparators. 
file_519.txt|Environmental Information Regulations 2004 Environmental Information Regulations 2004 If you want information about noise or general environmental issues relating to the railways, you may do so under the Environment Information Regulations 2004 . What are the Environmental Information Regulations 2004? The Environmental Information Regulations 2004 (the Regulations) implement the EC Directive on Public Access to Information (EC Directive 2003/4/EC). These Regulations update the law on public access to environmental information. Who do the Regulations apply to? The Regulations apply to public authorities, including ORR. Making a request for information under the Regulations A request for information under the Regulations should be addressed to ORR's customer correspondence team . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_8.txt|Closing a scheme Does automatic enrolment apply to me? Are you an employer with staff working for you in the UK? If so, then yes, automatic enrolment does apply to you and there are things you will need to do. Subscribe to news-by-email Subscribe to our news-by-email service – it's a free and easy way to keep up to date with all our developments. You can choose to receive updates on everything or only updates on automatic enrolment. On this page Automatic enrolment affects all employers with staff in the UK. You must enrol certain staff into a pension scheme. You must start doing this from your staging date, though there is an option to postpone automatic enrolment for up to three months. You must write to all your staff to tell them how they’ve been affected. What is automatic enrolment and why do I have to do it? People are living longer yet too many people are under-saving or not saving at all for what could be a long retirement. The law on workplace pensions has changed to make it easier for millions more people to build up a pension, particularly those on lower incomes. Automatic enrolment means that, rather than having to actively choose to join a pension scheme, staff are put into one by their employer as a matter of course. If they don’t want to be in the pension scheme, they must actively choose to opt out. It’s to encourage people to stay in pension saving. Back to top When will I have to do it? Automatic enrolment duties come into force for you from your ‘staging date’. You can find out your staging date by entering your PAYE reference into our tool. It also appears on any letters we send you about your duties. For more information go to what is my staging date? . You will have the option to postpone automatic enrolment for up to three months from your staging date. If you decide to do this, you won’t need to enrol anyone until the end of the postponement period. For more information go to postponement . Who do I need to put into a pension scheme? You must automatically enrol all staff who are: aged 22 to state pension age working in the UK earning over £10,000 a year. Some staff who don’t meet the criteria above are able to opt in to the pension scheme you’re using for automatic enrolment. You must put them in if they ask. You’ll have to pay a minimum employer contribution for all staff you put into this scheme. Certain other staff can ask to join a pension scheme. You must put these staff in a scheme, but the rules are different and there’s no requirement for you to pay an employer contribution. It’s the age and earnings of a member of staff that determines what ‘type’ of worker they are and therefore what duties you’ll have for them. Back to top What else do I need to do? You’ll need to write to each member of staff individually to tell them how they’ve personally been affected by automatic enrolment. The information you’ll need to tell them is different depending on their rights and the duties you have for them. You must also provide certain information to the regulator about how you’ve complied with your duties. Back to top Where do I start? The first thing you should do is find out your staging date. Once you know when this is, you can start planning to make sure you’re ready in time. Start planning early You’ll need to make some changes to allow for automatic enrolment, such as: setting up a pension scheme or modifying an existing one making any necessary changes to payroll so it can handle the new requirements putting systems in place to monitor the ages and earnings of your staff (your payroll may be able to do this) writing to your staff. Our automatic enrolment planner will help you find out what you’ll need to do, when you’ll need to do it and roughly how long each part will take. 
file_952.txt|Subscribe to the ONR email newsletter Receive the latest news and information on nuclear issues from ONR in a free and regular ebulletin. E-mail address: New Nuclear Reactors eBulletin Sign up for free regular news and updates by email about the new nuclear reactor assessment programme. 
file_736.txt|Read more about our current investigations Complaints investigated under the Competition Act 1998 This section provides links to our completed competition case work. Whenever we make a public decision or statement on a case it will be referenced here. Read more about competition complaints investigated Background The Competition Act 1998 outlaws any agreements, business practices or conduct which has, or could have, a damaging effect on competition in the United Kingdom. This includes abuse by a company which uses its dominant position in a way that damages competition. Where conduct has an effect on trade between member states we will apply Articles 101 and 102 of the European Treaty. We have extensive powers to investigate companies believed to be involved in anti-competitive activities. The Act is also enforced by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). In relation to the railway industry, we hold concurrent powers and will lead in the investigation of rail related matters. The exception is with criminal cartels which are investigated by the OFT and the Serious Fraud Office. Prohibitions under the Competition Act 1998 The Act prohibits: agreements between undertakings (companies) or decisions of associations of undertakings (e.g. trade associations), and concerted practices which have, as their object or effect, the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the United Kingdom (or any part of it) and which may affect trade in the United Kingdom. This is known as the Chapter I Prohibition; and conduct by one or more company amounting to the abuse of a dominant position in a market which may affect trade within the United Kingdom. This is known as the Chapter II Prohibition. Some examples that may indicate anti-competitive behaviour include: a major supplier has suddenly decided, for no apparent reason, to discontinue supplying you with a product; quotes from various suppliers are surprisingly and unusually similar; a major supplier will only sell you a product if you buy an unconnected product; or on entering a market, you find that a major competitor has responded by dropping his prices to extremely low levels, which you suspect would not cover its costs. The fact that a company is engaged in any of the behaviour shown in the examples above does not mean that it has necessarily broken the law. This will depend on the circumstances of the case. Under the Competition Act 1998, the Chapter I prohibition is breached only where the agreement or arrangement in question has an appreciable effect on competition. A Chapter II prohibition is breached only where the undertaking engaged in the conduct in question is in a dominant position and has abused that position. In some cases the behaviour in question may be a perfectly legitimate response to rigorous competition in the market. In circumstances where the conduct of a business might cause serious and irreparable harm to a market, we can provide interim relief whilst an investigation occurs. If you have a question related to competition, please contact us . If you want to make a complaint under the Competition Act, please see our complaints section . Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_899.txt|Estimates of station usage Estimates of station usage We publish estimates of the total numbers of people entering, exiting and changing at each station in Great Britain. These are collated by Steer Davies Gleave on behalf of ORR. Latest estimates of station usage reports and data 2013-14 report and data Station usage 2013-14 infographic pdf icon PDF, 1,702 Kb Notes on the latest estimates of station usage data Figures are based on ticket sales data recorded in rail industry systems. These are estimates and users should read the accompanying report in order to understand the limitations of the dataset. For further information on the dataset, please contact rstats@orr.gsi.gov.uk Previous estimates of station usage reports and data 2012-13 report and data 
file_58.txt|Closing a scheme Corporate changes and transactions This page applies to you if you’re appointed by trustees of a defined benefit pension scheme to help them to understand the impact of corporate changes and transactions on their scheme. Corporate changes and transactions include the employer selling or restructuring their business, transferring the scheme to another sponsor or leaving a multi-employer scheme. On this page Key points Corporate transactions are events that may affect the employer’s finances or underlying structure. You may be asked to provide advice to the trustees or to the employer on areas related to corporate transactions including applying for clearance, proposed abandonment arrangements and options when leaving multi-employer schemes. Corporate transactions Corporate transactions are employer-related or scheme-related events that may affect the employer’s finances or underlying structure, such as: selling or restructuring their business making a return of capital exiting a multi-employer pension scheme. You may be asked to advise the trustees or the employer on the impact of corporate transactions on their defined benefit (DB) pension scheme. Back to top Clearance You may be asked to advise trustees whether you consider that a corporate transaction is materially detrimental to the scheme’s ability to meet its liabilities. If this is the case, the trustees should consider whether to ask the employer to consider whether it thinks it might be appropriate to apply for clearance from us. For examples of material detriment, read our code-related guidance on the material detriment test . The clearance statement provides assurance that we won’t use our anti-avoidance powers in relation to the transaction. For more information on when employers should consider whether it might be appropriate to apply for clearance, read our regulatory guidance on clearance . Back to top Abandonment Abandonment of a pension scheme is where the sponsoring employer cuts its link with the scheme without providing the scheme with sufficient funds or assets to compensate for losing the employer’s ongoing support. This could happen, for instance, when the employer carries out a significant restructuring or transfers their scheme liabilities to another employer. You may be asked to analyse a proposed abandonment arrangement to help trustees reach a decision with other parties whether it is in the members’ best interests. Trustees should consult with us at an early stage in the process. Back to top Leaving multi-employer schemes There are a number of different ways that employers can manage their obligations to their scheme if they leave a multi-employer scheme. You may be asked to provide advice to the employer to decide which option is most suitable and to the employer or to the trustees to ensure that the scheme’s liabilities will continue to be appropriately funded. Back to top Notifiable events If you become aware of a failure by trustees or an employer to notify us of a notifiable event, you should report the failure to us as a breach of pensions legislation likely to be of material significance. For more information, go to our codes of practice on notifiable events and reporting breaches of the law . 
file_690.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_122.txt|Sometimes we issue guidance to accompany a code of practice if it would help to: explain our approach further; or include information which may need to be amended or extended from time to time (it's quicker to amend our guidance than it is a code of practice). For example, the guidance issued with the code of practice dealing with reporting breaches of the law gives examples of different situations to illustrate our 'traffic light' approach. It also includes a 'decision tree' to help readers who think they may have to report to us decide whether they actually need to. Code-related guidance 
file_101.txt|Key points Use our guidance and e-learning resources to help you comply with pensions legislation. We may take appropriate action (including enforcement if necessary) where pensions legislation is not being complied with. Report significant breaches of the law to us. How to comply with pensions legislation You must comply with pensions legislation affecting you and your defined contribution (DC) scheme. You can learn about your trustee duties in our Trustee toolkit . You can also find in-depth information about complying with legal requirements and incorporating good practice in the DC code and DC regulatory guidance , and our detailed guidance for trustees . Key areas to focus on You should pay particular attention to the following areas: governance standards, eg internal controls investment governance and decision-making 
file_589.txt|How we investigate incidents How we investigate incidents This page describes the purpose of investigating an incident and how we are informed when a serious incident occurs. Also, how we investigate, how we work with other bodies in the railway to find out what has happened, and what we do with the information. When an incident or accident occurs, we receive notification in line with RIDDOR . The Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) and British Transport Police (BTP) also investigate certain railway accidents and our inspectors work in collaboration with them in order to share information. The RAIB carries out the investigation into rail accidents and incidents without apportioning blame or liability, with a view to enabling lessons to be learned to improve safety on railways and prevent similar accidents and incidents. We may also investigate alongside RAIB in order to see whether there have been any breaches of health and safety law. The RAIB can make recommendations to us, as the National Safety Authority. We consider their recommendations and, if appropriate, pass them on to dutyholders who are required to take them into consideration and, where necessary, act upon them. Incidents and accidents that are not within the scope of the RAIB's work may also be investigated by us to find out what caused them and whether there have been any breaches of health and safety law. This helps us check how effective the dutyholder's health and safety management system is working and identify areas for improvement. Successful investigations rely on assistance from many people including employers, employees, contractors and members of the public, who help us to establish what happened. We may talk to, and interview such people during an investigation. We call these people 'witnesses' and have published an information leaflet pdf icon PDF, 149 Kb to help those we ask to help us. If it is appropriate, we have the power to prosecute under health and safety law. More information can be found in our enforcement section. Last updated - 12 August 2014 
file_313.txt|Browse reports / data Freight rail usage This section includes reports on the volumes of freight carried on the rail network in each financial quarter, disaggregated by commodity. It also includes data on other aspects of the rail market including train volumes and the share of the freight market. Freight rail usage 
file_966.txt|LC27 – Safety Mechanisms LC28 – Examination, inspection, maintenance, and testing In addition I attended an ONR Issues Database meeting with the Technical Safety and Support Manager in which we discussed the current open ONR Issues affecting Heysham 2. Explanation of Judgement if Safety System Not Judged to be Adequate This system based inspection judged that the system inspected meets the requirements of the safety case and is adequate. Key Findings, Inspector's Opinions and Reasons for Judgements Made The LC6 inspection involved consideration of both generic and local implementation documents as defined within their arrangements with the following areas covered as part of the inspection: Record management process overview, Record retention schedule including the review process, Categorisation of records for retention. Storage requirements and disposal of records. Arrangements in place for the monitoring the condition and suitability of both physical and electronic records held in storage. Sample of records held within Station archive including compliance with retention, categorisation, and storage policies. I am satisfied that the arrangements and their implementation for LC6 are to an adequate standard and have rated this element of my inspection through the IIS as 3 (adequate). From an LC10 perspective, I consider that the knowledge of the safety case by those at Heysham 2 was comprehensive.  There is one shortfall associated with the ability to demonstrate that those performing maintenance tasks associated with fire dampers are adequately trained.  As a result, I have scored this element of my inspection through the IIS as 4 (below standard).  An ONR Issue has been raised in order to capture the shortfall in training to address this non-compliance with the training requirements for the role. From an LC23 and LC24 perspective, I consider that the operating rules and associated instructions are well understood and embedded at Heysham 2.  There is an outstanding condition report in relation to the surveillance requirements (SR) for fire and hot gas and steam release fire zone boundary doors, which I consider to be more of an anomaly within the arrangements rather than a direct non-compliance.  In addition there is no degradation of plant condition as a result of the surveillance not being fully implemented.  I have therefore scored this element of my inspection through the IIS as 3 (adequate).  An ONR Issue has been raised in order to capture the need to address the anomaly associated with the two surveillance requirements. From an LC27 perspective, I consider that implementation of safety case through the application of plant locking for the water spray fire protection system (WSFPS) does not appear to meet the intent of the safety case.  It is important to stress that there was no nuclear safety shortfall in terms of the availability of the WSFPS, however, there was uncertainty over compliance with the operating rules as contained within the licensees arrangements.  In addition to this finding, a previous inspection of LC27 which included plant locking identified similar issues.  I judge that the LC27 element of this inspection is below standard and as a result I have scored it as 4 (below standard) through the IIS.  An ONR Issue has been raised to address this shortfall in compliance. From an LC28 perspective and based upon my sample, I consider that maintenance of the fire systems does not meet the expectations as detailed within ONR guidance due to the non-compliance identified within the Maintenance Schedule.  Given that this non-compliance had not been suspended in accordance with NGL’s approved arrangements, I judge that the LC28 element is below standard and as a result scored a 4 (below standard) through the IIS.  An ONR Issue has been raised to address this shortfall in compliance. The intervention was performed in line with ONR’s guidance requirements (as described in our technical inspection guides ) in the areas inspected. Further information on intervention ratings Conclusion of Intervention I am satisfied that the arrangements and their implementation at Heysham 2 for LC6 are to an adequate standard and judge that the outcome of the sample inspection undertaken met with the expectations detailed within ONR guidance.  I have therefore rated this element of my intervention an Integrated Intervention Strategy (IIS) rating of 3, adequate. With regards to the SBI, after considering the evidence and on balancing the  implementation with the relatively minor shortfalls within 3 of the Licence Conditions, I judge that the fire detection, suppression, barriers, doors and dampers system meets the requirements of the safety case and its’ implementation is deemed adequate. Four ONR Issues have been raised to address a number of observations raised as a result of the inspection in order to address the shortfalls in compliance.  In addition further observations of minor nuclear safety significance that were made as a result of this system based inspection are to be addressed by NGL in accordance with their own arrangements.  NGL has raised a number of Condition Reports (CR) capturing the observations. There are no findings from this inspection that could significantly undermine nuclear safety and no change to the planned interventions and inspections of Heysham 2. 
file_98.txt|Detailed guidance Key points A scheme offers value for money where the costs of membership provide good value in relation to the benefits of membership, when compared to other options available in the market. Consider whether your defined contribution (DC) scheme provides value for money on an ongoing basis and carry out a regular strategic review. Improve issues within your scope directly with advisers or service providers. Raise concerns outside of your scope with the relevant party. What is value for money? A scheme offers value for money where the costs and charges deducted from members provide good value in relation to the benefits and services they receive, when compared to other options available in the market. For instance, if your scheme has higher costs and charges it should offer improved benefits and services. There is no common definition of what represents value for money. You need to understand what your members will value most when assessing the overall value of the scheme and its individual components. Costs and charges Costs and charges have a significant impact on members’ pension savings. You should understand all the costs and charges that apply to the scheme or the investment funds used by the scheme. For more information, go to costs and charges . Back to top Assessing value for money You should keep value for money in mind on an ongoing basis by including it on your scheme’s risk register. You should also carry out a regular strategic review, eg every three years. You should take a proportionate and cost-effective approach by using ongoing information from service providers and publicly available information. You should document the results of your assessments as evidence of your activity in this area. Back to top Improving value for money You can often improve issues such as poor administration or investment returns directly with advisers and service providers. If you have concerns that are not within your scope to resolve, you should raise them with the employer or the party that needs to resolve them. You or the employer may decide that scheme members will be better served by: requiring improved service levels removing unused services changing provider. You or the employer may ultimately decide that members are better off in a larger, more competitive scheme so need to wind up the existing scheme. Go to closing your DC scheme . Back to top Communicating with members and employers You should ensure that you clearly disclose to members all costs and charges that are deducted from their pension funds, throughout their membership. If the employer is considering whether to offer membership of an existing DC trust-based scheme to their staff, you should ensure that clear and accurate information about costs and charges is provided to the employer at point of selection. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit A tutorial in the ‘How a DC scheme works (2014)’ module called 'Value for money and charges' covers assessing whether a scheme offers value for money. You must log in or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
file_439.txt|
file_174.txt|Follow us to find out the latest news from the MHRA. What is Twitter? Twitter is a website designed to allow people to communicate and stay connected by exchanging quick, frequent, 140 character messages. When you log into Twitter, you simply choose whose messages you want to receive and how you want to receive them. The MHRA runs a number of Twitter accounts to help you get the information you need. These updates can be read through your mobile device or on a computer without having to search for it. Keep reading to find out more about how to use Twitter. MHRA Twitter channels @MHRAgovuk is our corporate channel and where you will find general information and news from the Agency. You can also follow our Press Office for press releases and statements at @MHRApress . As the government agency which is responsible for ensuring that medicines and medical devices work, and are acceptably safe; @MHRAdevices for medical devices information and safety alerts, and @MHRAmedicines for medicines information and safety alerts. Finally, we run @MHRAherbals where you can find information on the safe use of herbal remedies. 
file_615.txt|Achieving good practice Help in achieving good practice Advice on how to identify and deliver improved training for rail managers on health, with links to further sources of help. In order to improve competence on health, we undertook in our Health Programme for 2010-14 pdf icon PDF, 707 Kb to source, or devise in partnership with others, a syllabus for occupational health training for rail industry managers. We have carried out a desk top review of widely available occupational health training syllabuses, including relevant National Occupational Standards (competence based vocational qualifications) managed by the rail transport and construction sector skills councils.We looked for syllabuses which could provide rail managers with a broad overview of health risk management, as well as sufficient knowledge of the key occupational health issues facing the rail industry, including for example substances hazardous to health under the Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations 2002 as amended (COSHH), lead, asbestos, noise, vibration, musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) and stress. We have identified a number of potential sources of help to support rail companies in achieving good practice in health training for their managers. These include free health training resources for smaller contractors and heritage operators, as well as training support for larger rail companies. We have worked with the National Examining Board for Occupational Safety and Health (NEBOSH) on potential development of a NEBOSH Certificate on Health and Wellbeing in the rail industry pdf icon PDF, 312 Kb , which could be taken forward with sufficient industry support. Manager training in occupational health can be developed and delivered in-house, with external support, or a combination of the two. Trainers will need adequate knowledge of occupational health risk management principles, practices and legal requirements; have the ability to train; and be familiar with the nature of the work and potential health risks involved. The next step is for rail companies (or groups of duty holders) to assess their own training needs and decide how best to fill any manager competence gaps on occupational health. A training needs analysis involving your front line managers should help you to decide on the required content, level of detail, and delivery method of any occupational health training, to suit your business. The final step will be to check that occupational health training for your managers has been effective. Training can provide the foundations of competence but it does not necessarily result in a competent manager. You will need to assess and review manager competence to ensure that occupational health training is being applied effectively and consistently to protects workers' health, and reduce associated costs to your business. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_915.txt|Train driver receives prison sentence for ignoring safety systems Former First Capital Connect train driver, Scott Walford, has received a three-month suspended prison sentence and been ordered to pay costs of £500, after he ignored warnings and safety systems on the Cambridge to London train he was driving – placing passengers and staff on board in great danger. On 7 November, Mr Walford pleaded guilty following a prosecution brought by the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) for a breach in health and safety law in October 2013. 
file_163.txt|Contact Us Contact Us If you want to request further information about the Yellow Card Scheme, have any technical issues, or want to give us feedback you can contact us using the form below: Contact Us Fields that you must complete are marked with this symbol: Name 
file_83.txt|Independent trustee register An introduction to trusteeship If you are a trustee, or considering becoming one, you need to understand what you need to do first, how you can work out if your scheme is being run well, and your role and responsibilities. Committed and conscientious trustees play an essential role in the proper running of pension schemes. Our aim is to provide you with support and guidance to carry out your role with confidence. Your duties are wide-ranging - from the collecting of contributions to the investment in assets and paying of benefits. The scheme members look to you to make sure that their pension benefits are secure. Although you have up to six months to acquire the relevant trustee knowledge and understanding, you need to be equipped to be able to make any decisions that may arise in the meantime. This is unless you are a professional trustee or a trustee appointed for your particular expertise, in which case you need to have the relevant knowledge and understanding immediately. 
file_634.txt|Train protection system exemptions Applying for an exemption from the requirement to have a Train Protection System. Regulation 3(1) Railway Safety Regulation 1999 prohibits the operation of a train on a railway with a line speed of over 25mph, unless a train protection system is in service in relation to that train on that railway. Regulation 6 of the 1999 Regulations allows us to grant exemptions from any requirement imposed by the regulations and to attach conditions to any such exemptions. All requests for exemption, and subsequent decisions, have been posted on our website. All correspondence related to decisions is available to the public on request. Application for train protection exemptions The certificates below are listed in date order based our decision date. GB Railfreight Limited Exemptions from train protection requirements contained in Regulation 3(1) of the Railway Safety Regulations 1999 for the operation of Krupp class 6400 locomotives Network Rail Ltd Exemptions from train protection requirements contained in Regulation 3(1) of the Railway Safety Regulations 1999 for the operation of Krupp class 6400 locomotives. Network Rail (High Speed) Ltd 24 April 2013 West Coast Railway Company Limited 30 October 2012 Exemptions from train protection requirements contained in Regulation 3(1) of the Railway Safety Regulations 1999 for the operation of Krupp class 6400 locomotives. Tube Lines (Transplant) Ltd Exemption certificate and cover letter pdf icon PDF, 127 Kb Exemptions from the train protection requirement contained in Regulation 3 (1) of the Railway Safety Regulations 1999 in relation to the operation of asset inspection trains, engineering trains and test trains, to the extent that such operations are carried out on any LUL infrastructure in accordance with any of the relevant procedures. Balfour Beatty Rail Plant Ltd 23 November 2010 Exemption certificate and cover letter pdf icon PDF, 90 Kb Exemptions from the train protection requirement contained in Regulation 3 (1) of the Railway Safety Regulations 1999 for: (a) engineering trains operating in (i) possessions; (ii) specified areas, and (iii) engineers' current areas; and (b) any other engineering train, test train and asset inspection train operations to the extent that they are covered by operational safety plans which vary the relevant procedures. TransPlant (Tube Lines Ltd) 
file_914.txt|Train driver receives prison sentence for ignoring safety systems Former First Capital Connect train driver, Scott Walford, has received a three-month suspended prison sentence and been ordered to pay costs of £500, after he ignored warnings and safety systems on the Cambridge to London train he was driving – placing passengers and staff on board in great danger. On 7 November, Mr Walford pleaded guilty following a prosecution brought by the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) for a breach in health and safety law in October 2013. 
file_720.txt|High Speed 1 (HS1) High Speed 1 (HS1) High Speed 1 (HS1) Ltd has a 30-year concession to operate and manage the railway between St Pancras and the Channel Tunnel. As the economic and safety regulator for HS1 Ltd, we require the company to be efficient and perform well. 
file_845.txt|Notices Notices This section contains details of our licence notices currently out to consultation and also legal notices such as prohibition, improvement, periodic review and penalty notices. Licence notices currently out to consultation Details of proposals to grant licences or licence exemptions on which we are consulting. Read more about licence notices Legal notices Details of our legal notices , which include improvement and prohibition notices, PR13 and PR08 notices and penalty notices and final orders. 
file_523.txt|Online e-tendering system Online e-tendering system This system allows us to publish notices, pre-qualification questionnaires and invitations to tender online, and allows potential suppliers to submit any queries and their responses electronically. As well as a list of 'open' tenders being run by us, the e-Tendering site also gives access to tender opportunities from other public bodies and there is no need to pre-register to view these. How do I register my company as a potential ORR supplier? Follow the link to our e-Tender supplier website and complete the registration form. It is important you read and understand the user agreement before completing the registration form. Please note: if you are currently registered with BravoSolution that registration only applies to the 'entity' you are registered to supply. You need to complete a separate registration for each 'entity' you wish to supply. If you are registered with BuyingSolutions as a framework supplier then please use the same contact details. Please note you will not be charged for using the system, as there is no registration, subscription or licence fee. What happens next? Once your registration is complete, you will have access to 'open invitation' ORR tenders, and we may also invite you to participate in other selected tenders as a supplier. Please be aware that once you have registered with this system, the system will not automatically alert you of any new opportunities, so be sure to visit the site regularly to see if any new opportunities have been advertised. Who should I contact if I run into problems? BravoSolution are providing our e-Tendering service. If you have any problems with the registration process or using this service, please call BravoSolution on 0800 011 2470 or email help@bravosolution.co.uk . Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_451.txt|The law and our duties The law and our duties ORR holds the railway industry to account to meet the priorities of the governments in England, Scotland and Wales. We operate within the framework set by UK and European legislation and we are accountable through Parliament and the courts. Our safety and economic functions and duties are defined in: the Railways Act 2005 the Railways and other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 the Rail Vehicle Accessibility Regulations 2010 the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. We are also the national safety authority for Britain's railways under European Union law, and we work with the Competition and Markets Authority to apply the Competition Act 1998 in relation to the railways. We are funded by the rail industry through license fees and safety levies. Statutory duties 
file_118.txt|Forms available for download Automatic enrolment detailed guidance Aimed at professional advisers, large employers with in-house pensions expertise and those with a sound knowledge of pensions, our guidance provides detailed help with implementing the new employer duties. The current changes to the detailed guides came into force on 6 April 2014, these changes are now reflected in the detailed guides below. You can reproduce the text in any of these publications, as long as you quote the name and title of the publication and identify our website as the source of the material. Please read the essential guide to automatic enrolment that outlines the main steps you will need to be ready, before reading our detailed guides. Subscribe to news-by-email Subscribe to our news-by-email service – it's a free and easy way to keep up to date with all our developments. You can choose to receive updates on everything or only updates on automatic enrolment. On this page 
file_375.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_1.txt|Sorry, we don’t currently have any vacancies. Please follow Ofqual jobs on Twitter to be alerted to any new roles. The Ofqual blog 
file_473.txt|Transport for London Transport for London Transport for London (TfL) was established in 2000 as the integrated body responsible for London's transport system. Its role is to implement the Mayor's transport strategy and manage transport services across the capital, for which the Mayor has responsibility. It is directed by a management board whose members are chosen for their understanding of transport matters and appointed by the Mayor of London. TfL's Commissioner and the chief officers are responsible and accountable for the day-to-day operations of the organisation. TfL manages London's buses, London Underground, Docklands Light Railway, London Overground and London Trams. It also runs London River Services, Victoria Coach Station and the congestion charge scheme. TfL also has responsibility for a network of main roads, all of London's 6,000 traffic lights and regulates taxis and the private hire trade. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_503.txt|Railway funding in Britain Railway funding in Britain Rail infrastructure is split in Britain: Network Rail is the monopoly owner and operator of the national rail network and its assets – such as track, bridges and signalling – while the train operating companies (TOCs) and freight operating companies (FOCs) run the trains. Funding for Network Rail and the train and freight operating companies comes from a combination of passenger fares, government subsidy and commercial operations. For total railway income, the 2012-2013 figures show: 59% came from passenger fares (£7.7bn) 31% came from the Westminster, Scottish and Welsh governments (£4bn) 10% came from commercial operations such as stations, shops and car parks (£1.3bn). One of ORR's key responsibilities is to challenge Network Rail to operate efficiently and perform well within the funding it receives. Industry income, expenditure and Government funding April 2012 - March 2013 
file_123.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
file_629.txt|Level crossings law Level crossings law This page sets out the law on level crossings, to whom it applies and what they are expected to do to comply. It also provides information on the Law Commission review of level crossing law. The law applying to level crossings has evolved over the past 160 years. Currently, laws relating to the highways, railways and health and safety apply. Dutyholders Duties and responsibilities are placed on a number of bodies and individuals including: railway infrastructure managers as the level crossing operator - the infrastructure manager (Network Rail for the mainline rail network in Great Britain) is responsible for the operation, maintenance and renewal of all level crossings on its network. The infrastructure manager must ensure that crossings work correctly and are safe to use. traffic authorities - traffic authorities are responsible for the maintenance of public roads on the approach to level crossings. Duties may be placed upon them via level crossing orders for specific crossings. employers - employers whose business requires employees to cross level crossings, in particular user worked level crossings (such as farmers and delivery companies) must ensure that their employees are able to use level crossings safely whilst working. train and freight operators - at certain types of crossing, train crew are required to follow a procedure for the safe operation of the crossing. This may include giving warning of a train's approach and the correct opening and closing of gates or barriers. road users - road users must obey road traffic light signals and road signs; avoid overhead electric lines by obeying height-restriction warnings; and obey any sign that says they must use a phone at the crossing to get permission to cross. other crossing users - other users (for example pedestrians, cyclists and horse-riders) must also obey instruction signs, warning lights and alarms. If there are no barriers or lights, stop, look and listen, then look again before crossing. Key level crossing law ORR has particular involvement in level crossing safety through the: Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 - this puts a duty on employers to secure the health, safety and welfare of employees, as well as protecting the general public against risks to health or safety arising out of work activities. Level Crossings Act 1983 - this authorises the Secretary of State for Transport to make level crossing orders for the protection of those using a level crossing. This function is usually performed by the ORR on behalf of the Secretary of State. Level crossing orders cover individual level crossings. They specify the protective equipment required at a crossing. These Acts can be found in the UK statutory law database . Submission of level crossing orders Information and advice on level crossing orders made under the Level Crossings Act 1983 is available in Chapter 3 of the guidance Level crossings: A guide for managers, designers and operators pdf icon PDF, 1,275 Kb . Law Commissions' review The Law Commission for England and Wales together with the Scottish Law Commission has reviewed existing level crossing legislation. This project was concerned with examining the legal framework with a view to its modernisation and simplification. On 22 July 2010 they published a consultation paper, which contained their detailed proposals for law reform. The consultation period concluded on 30 November 2010, and the Commissions have now reviewed and analysed the responses. The final report was published on 25 September 2013, together with an analysis of the responses and a draft Bill. The consultation paper may be found on Law Commissions' websites . On publication of the Law Commission report, Ian Prosser, ORR's Director of Railway Safety said "The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) welcomes the Law Commissions' proposals to modernise level crossing legislation, which will cut red-tape and make it easier for high-risk crossings to be closed. Great Britain's level crossings, although among the safest in Europe, pose a significant rail safety risk to the public. That is why we have announced millions of pounds' worth of extra funds to close or upgrade level crossings over the next five years, and will work to support implementation of improved level crossing laws."As part of their review of level crossing legislation in Great Britain, the Law Commissions have produced a helpful list of the main legislative provisions that relate to level crossings. The table can be viewed under the heading 'Legislative Framework'. Note that the Commissions do not warrant that this table is comprehensive as to the legislation and key provisions. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_760.txt|Amendments to contracts (Section 22 and 22a) Amendments to contracts (Section 22 and 22a) Closed – undertaken by Network RailDraft agreement Application formThis section contains all current applications we are considering for agreed amendments to contracts (section 22 of the Act) and disputed amendments to contracts (section 22A of the Act). When we have made our decision, the information held in the current application section is moved into the relevant decisions section . In line with the Industry code of practice (see Annex A of our criteria and procedures document ), Network Rail is responsible for consulting on most proposed new contracts and amendments. Accordingly, please check Network Rail's consultation web pages as well as our own when looking for details of current consultations. TOC / FOC 
file_515.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_106.txt|Exchange Exchange allows you to share information about your work-based pension scheme with The Pensions Regulator. You can register your scheme online, submit notifiable events, report breaches of the law, set up a direct debit and more. Information for Employers You can’t use Exchange to complete a declaration, instead use automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) . You don’t need to declare with us on Exchange if you’re using NEST as they’re already declared. 
file_180.txt|Home Search & Help Sitemap Sitemap The section presents a topical listing of all pages in the website as they are arranged in the navigation. Choose a topic from the list below to expand it, then choose a further topic or page. Alternatively view the A to Z , which lists all pages alphabetically. 
file_97.txt|Detailed guidance Key points Communicate key information to scheme members regularly to keep them informed and to enable them to make decisions. Provide communications that are accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. What you need to communicate to members You must communicate certain information to your defined contribution (DC) scheme members. This includes: basic information within two months of the member joining, or one month if they have been automatically enrolled – including an explanation of lifestyling where it is offered by the scheme, when it is likely to be adopted, and outlining its advantages and disadvantages a statutory money purchase illustration showing, for example, the member’s projected pension and an annual benefit statement providing details of contributions credited to the member in the preceding scheme year certain documents on request, eg trustees annual report, scheme rules, statement of investment principles, and ad hoc benefit statements and transfer values where the scheme offers lifestyling, an explanation of it and when it is likely to be adopted (or if it has been adopted) five to 15 years before a member retires, and its advantages and disadvantages information about selecting an annuity from an insurance company of the member’s choice (the open market option) at least four months before their expected retirement date information when other specific events happen, eg when a member leaves the scheme or the scheme winds up. You should also communicate information to your scheme members about: their current investment strategy and why they need to review the suitability of their investment choices how their level of contributions is a key factor in determining the overall size of their pension fund costs and charges. Back to top Providing good quality communications The retirement outcome that a member receives is more likely to be improved when they engage on key issues. You should make sure that communications meet the needs of members from when they join the scheme until when they retire. Many members have little or no interest in their pension until they reach retirement. Therefore, you should ensure that member communications are accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. Focus on providing the right information, at the right time using the right channel. You should consider how best to use resources such as a scheme website, email, the company intranet, webinars and podcasts, mobile phone applications and text messages. You should work with the employer. For instance, you may wish to issue joint communications. Planning You may wish to document your approach to communications in a plan. This could set out your communication objectives, how you plan to achieve them and who is responsible for the different aspects of communications. Monitoring You should review scheme communications regularly, for example once a year, and when legislation changes. Monitor how effective they are in achieving their objectives and take action when they don’t meet their objectives. You should ensure that member communications is an item in your risk register. Go to risk management . Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit A tutorial in the 'How a DC scheme works (2014)' module called 'Member communications' covers how to communicate effectively with scheme members. You must log in or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
file_706.txt|Land disposal policy Land disposal policy It is important that land in which Network Rail has an interest and which may be important to the continuing operation and future development of the network, and services relating to railways, is not disposed of against the public interest. Condition 7 of Network Rail's network licence safeguards against the inappropriate disposal of land assets. Land disposal Network Rail must seek our consent for any disposal not covered by a general consent. Network Rail's obligations are set out in the document Land Disposal by Network Rail: The regulatory arrangements pdf icon PDF, 303 Kb , December 2013. Network Rail's role in land disposal When Network Rail refers a disposal to us for consent, it must provide a description of the proposals plus evidence of stakeholders' views and final positions together with any commentary on them. For every submission we expect Network Rail to consult the stakeholders set out below, depending on the geographical location of the proposed disposal. It is expected that passenger representative organisations will represent the overall comments or views of individuals using the railways when giving their views to Network Rail. Parties that must be consulted: Department for Transport / Transport Scotland / Scottish Council for Development & Industry / Welsh Government Association of Train Operating Companies Rail Freight Group and Freight Transport Association Train operating companies (passenger and freight) Local authorities Passenger Transport Authorities and Passenger Transport Executives Transport for London British Transport Police Passenger Focus / London TravelWatch We will issue a decision, either granting or refusing consent within two months of the receipt of the application. Latest land disposals Details of current land disposal cases and previous decisions are available from our current land disposal cases page. Further information 
file_680.txt|Control period 4 Control period 4 (CP4) The 2008 Periodic Review (PR08) set the outputs that Network Rail must deliver, and the level of access charges paid by train operators for use of the infrastructure from 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2014, or control period 4 (CP4). Periodic review 2008 (PR08) PR08 included extensive work determining the appropriate financial and incentive framework for Network Rail and reviewed the potential for efficiency savings in its expenditure. Network Rail's CP4 delivery plan Network Rail published its CP4 delivery plan in March 2009. Read more about CP4 delivery plan Delivery of CP4 enhancement projects and funds We monitor the portfolio of enhancement projects and funds that Network Rail has been funded to deliver in CP4. 
file_311.txt|You need to be logged in to continue Secondary menu 
file_935.txt|Regulator urges rail passengers to claim compensation for travel disruption Regulator urges rail passengers to claim compensation for travel disruption 30 December 2014 The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) is today urging all passengers who have been affected by significant travel disruption to claim the compensation they are entitled to. Passengers whose journeys are disrupted may be entitled to a full refund or compensation for their ticket from the train operator, if their train was cancelled or delayed by over thirty minutes. Train operators use either the "Passenger Charter" or "Delay Repay" schemes when compensating passengers for a delay to their journey. Further information on claiming a refund or compensation from the operators affected by this weekend's disruption can be found on their websites: East Coast http://www.thameslinkrailway.com/contact-us/delay-repay/ Office of Rail Regulation ceo, Richard Price said: ORR will be conducting a review into this weekend's disruption, and amongst other things will look at the standard of passenger information during disruptions – exploring whether passengers have been adequately informed to make alternative arrangements to their journeys or claim compensation. Our passenger compensation report published in February found that three quarters of rail passengers are unaware of their compensation and refunds rights. Effective communication with passengers is vital. ORR is pushing for industry to do more proactively to improve standards of passenger information. Notes to editors ORR is the independent safety and economic regulator for Great Britain's railways. Follow ORR on Twitter @railregulation . The passenger compensation report and ORR's quick guide to claiming compensation can be downloaded here: http://orr.gov.uk/publications/reports/rail-passenger-compensation-and-refund-rights The Passenger Charter scheme is based on the compensation arrangements set out in condition 42 of the National Rail Conditions of Carriage (NRCoC). Passenger Charter schemes differ for individual TOCs. Under the NRCoC passengers may be eligible for compensation if they arrive more than 60 minutes late  at their destination, depending on the cause of delay. Under the Delay Repay scheme the amount of compensation payable increases with the length of delay, e.g. 50% of the relevant ticket (or portion of ticket) at 30 minutes and 100% at 60 minutes. It is a 'no fault' scheme – compensation is payable regardless of the cause of the delay. ORR is currently working with retailers of rail tickets to develop a Code of Practice on the information passengers should be provided with when buying a ticket. We consulted in September 2014 to seek stakeholders' views on the information that is material to passengers. The Code is expected to be  in place by spring 2015. 
file_507.txt|Workforce management information Workforce management information Workforce information is sent to the Cabinet Office on a monthly basis and it includes the number of staff by grade, payroll, non payroll and the organisation pay bill. Please note: These figures are not official statistics. They are internal workforce management information published in the interests of transparency. These figures have not been reconciled centrally with any National Statistics. Where differences appear between the monthly information and National Statistics, clarifying comments will be provided. The ONS quarterly public sector employment statistics provide an official headline measure for comparing  the overall size of employment in central government organisations with other sectors of the economy at the relevant quarterly reference point. Given the wide range of organisations covered, caution should be exercised when drawing inferences from the figures and care should be taken when making comparisons between organisations. Performance related pay 
file_69.txt|Closing a scheme Quality assurance Check the quality of your clients’ defined contribution schemes so that you and the trustees can demonstrate to employers and scheme members that you’re running a quality scheme which is more likely to deliver good retirement outcomes. Trustees of master trusts may ask you for help with independently assuring their scheme. 
file_498.txt|How we are funded We are funded by the rail industry through license fees and safety levies. Our economic regulation activities are funded through a licence fee – although currently only Network Rail pays this fee. Our health and safety activities are funded through a safety levy, which is based on the turnover of each railway service provider. Company turnover 
file_317.txt|Browse reports / data Rail finance This section includes reports on financial support to the rail industry, covering subsidies from the government and investment from private companies. It also includes data on the average annual change in passenger fares since 2004 by sector and ticket type. Rail finance 
file_590.txt|Handling RAIB recommendations This page explains our role in handling recommendations from the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB). We have a clear policy pdf icon PDF, 34 Kb for considering and following up RAIB's recommendations. We ensure that recommendations are duly considered and where appropriate acted upon. We assess the action taken by those to whom we have directed the recommendations to against clear criteria, using both technical and other experts, to decide our view on the responses and decide what further action we may need to take. We report to RAIB in accordance with the regulations and the Memorandum of Understanding pdf icon PDF, 72 Kb between us. We have a separate Memorandum of Understanding for Scotland pdf icon PDF, 64 Kb . We report back to RAIB details of any implementation measures, or the reasons why no implementation measures are being taken. In this section 
file_779.txt|Email: david.reed@orr.gsi.gov.uk Lessons learned review (2010) Our review of the decision process and subsequent directions for applications for track access rights on the East Coast Main Line during 2010. In February 2010 we issued directions on three applications and approved a fourth granting three passenger train operators - East Coast, Grand Central and Hull Trains - the rights to operate additional and/or amended services on the East Coast Main Line (ECML). We decided to carry out a review into the process because, whilst the industry was well aware that difficulties were encountered at various stages along the way, we believe that, overall, the process took too long. If we are to learn from this we need to look constructively at the whole process, including ORR's own areas of responsibility, in order to establish: what went well; how the process could be improved in future; and what the industry could have done differently, with the benefit of hindsight. We issued our report on 20 August 2010 and this, together with our letter of 5 March 2010 and written responses, follow. We have made a number of changes to our processes, procedures and documentation to address the issues and criticisms received from stakeholders. Outstanding issues are now being taken forward as part of our industry reform workstream . Our letter to the industry 
file_344.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_656.txt|Rail industry costs Rail industry costs In the periodic review 2013 (PR13) we have established and drawn on a much deeper and robust base of studies, with newer evidence and analysis, than was available to Sir Roy McNulty's value for money study or at the time of our advice to ministers. Our review sets a strong efficiency challenge and our plans for enhancements efficiency develop this challenge further. Sir Roy McNulty's rail value for money study took our analysis of Network Rail's costs and looked more broadly at the efficiency of the whole rail industry. His report highlighted that whole-industry costs are 30 per cent higher than comparable railways elsewhere in Europe. This is reflected in the high levels of fares and the need for continuing taxpayer support. Our assumptions on how much money Network Rail needs to spend to deliver its outputs and other commitments were fundamental to our decisions on the company's revenue requirements: We have undertaken a thorough review of Network Rail‟s plans across all areas of expenditure to ensure that our assessment is challenging but achievable. We have reviewed cross-cutting issues such as the management of inflation, which potentially apply to all areas of expenditure, and issues specific to certain types of expenditure. We have set Network Rail a challenge of achieving 19.4% efficiency savings on its support, operations, maintenance and renewals expenditure in CP5. Our assumptions for maintenance and renewals expenditure include both volumes of work and the unit cost of doing this work today. We consider that Network Rail has the capability to deliver this challenge and our assessment should incentivise Network Rail to reduce its expenditure in a safe and sustainable way. Main changes since ourIn support of its recommendations, the RVfM study identified a number of key areas where savings could be realised to deliver improved value for money. The majority of these savings were assumed to result from efficiencies in train operations, rolling stock companies and infrastructure management. Our final determination forecast of total expenditure on traction electricity, industry costs and rates in CP5 is £3,056m. This represents 8% of Network Rail's total expenditure. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_735.txt|Competition and consumers Competition and consumers We work to ensure that the rail market is competitive and fair – for passengers, freight customers, railway operators and taxpayers. We have powers under both consumer and competition law with regard to the railways. Consumer law aims to ensure that businesses are fair and open in their dealings with consumers. Competition law outlaws any agreements, business practices or actions which have a damaging effect on competition in the UK. 
file_892.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_142.txt|Search site Public service schemes This new section of our website is for anyone involved in the governance and administration of public service pension schemes. This includes scheme contacts, scheme managers, pension board members, administrators and professional advisers. Initially these will be the schemes for civil servants, armed forces, health service workers, teachers, judiciary, police, firefighters and local government workers. In due course it may also include some public body schemes. Over the coming months we’ll be adding more web pages, guidance documents and online learning resources to help you ensure your scheme is managed effectively. 
file_96.txt|Detailed guidance Key points Set up a process that you can use to identify and manage conflicts of interest of trustees, advisers and service providers. Make sure the process includes a conflicts policy, register of interest, declarations and advance planning. Setting up a conflicts process You must have a process that enables you to identify and manage any conflicts of interest for those involved in running your defined contribution (DC) scheme. This includes trustees, advisers and service providers. Your process should include the following controls: conflicts policy setting out the scheme's approach to dealing with conflicts register of interests for recording all actual or potential conflicts declarations when trustees, advisers and service providers are appointed, ongoing declarations by advisers and service providers as soon as they arise, declarations at the start of trustee and sub-committee meetings advance planning to identify conflicts that may occur in the future. Back to top Trustee conflicts of interest Trustee conflicts of interest can arise in DC schemes. They may arise, for example, when agreeing operational costs such as those relating to administration or communication with employers. You should be alert to these types of issues and must have processes in place to manage them. This should include ensuring that representation on the trustee board is as balanced as possible. You or one of your fellow trustees may be an employee of the product provider, particularly if the scheme was set up by an insurer. If a provider-appointed trustee becomes aware of any business-related decisions which have a bearing on the scheme, they should consider the impact this may have on their role as a trustee. Back to top Adviser and service provider conflicts of interest Your advisers and service providers may recommend services or products offered by related parties, for which they may gain financial or non-financial benefit. Where you believe that any advice or service may be compromised, you should consider further measures to manage the conflict. This may include speaking to other advisers or providers, tendering and comparing products. Document any actions you take. You should also ensure your advisers and providers have adequate arrangements in place for disclosing and managing conflicts of interest. If your adviser or service provider is also used by the scheme’s employer, you should consider whether you need to take steps to address potential conflicts. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit A tutorial in the 'The trustee’s role' module called 'Conflicts of interest' covers how to identify and manage conflicts of interest. You must log in or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. Back to top Detailed guidance Conflicts of interest section of the DC code : provides guidance on establishing a conflicts process and managing adviser and service provider conflicts of interest in DC schemes. Conflicts of interest regulatory guidance : provides comprehensive guidance and educational support on managing conflicts of interest in any type of scheme. 
file_858.txt|Penalty notices Notices issued due to a breach or a failure to comply with an enforcement order. Notice in accordance with section 57C(6) of the Railways Act 1993 stating that the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) has imposed a penalty of £3m on Network Rail infrastructure Limited (Network Rail) for a contravention of condition 1 of its network licence pdf icon PDF, 75 Kb 22 Nov 2010 Notice in accordance with section 57C of the Railways Act 1993 stating that the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) proposes to impose a penalty of £3m on Network Rail infrastructure Limited (Network Rail) for a contravention of condition 1 of its network licence pdf icon PDF, 85 Kb 27 Oct 2010 Notice, in accordance with section 57c of The Railways Act 1993, as amended, of The Office of Rail Regulation's proposal to impose a penalty on Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 1,195 Kb 9 May 2008 Notice, in accordance with section 57c of The Railways Act 1993, as amended, of The Office of Rail Regulation's proposal to impose a penalty on Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 156 Kb 6 Sep 2007 Notice, in accordance with section 56 of The Railways Act 1993, as amended, of The Office of Rail Regulation's proposal to make a final order, in relation to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited's contravention of Condition 7 of its network licence pdf icon PDF, 134 Kb 28 Feb 2007 
file_711.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_134.txt|Prohibition of trustees Determinations The Pensions Regulator has a range of powers that it can use to intervene and help put things right, where necessary. The process used to decide if we will use one of these powers is called a 'determination'. Carrying out determinations A determination may take place when: the regulator has investigated a case and has grounds for believing that a breach may have occurred which is within its power to sanction or prosecute; a problem has arisen in a scheme that the regulator considers can be put right with the use of one of its powers; or an application has been made by trustees, managers, members or employer of a scheme for the regulator to use one of its powers. The regulator's staff have the discretion to use some of the powers - for example, clearance statements and improvement notices - but a range of major powers can only be exercised by the regulator's Determinations Panel . Share this page using: 
file_965.txt|ONR research Nuclear Materials Balance - 2013/14 Nuclear materials balance figures (also known as ‘Material unaccounted for’, and described in the industry as inventory differences) for the processing of civil nuclear material were published annually from 1977 onwards by UKAEA on behalf of the UK nuclear industry.  Changes in the structure of the industry which followed from setting-up the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA) meant that figures for 2004/5 and 2005/6 were released, on behalf of the industry, by the then DTI.  The transfer in April 2007 of operational aspects of the work of the UK Safeguards Office (UKSO) from DTI to the HSE/ONR means that the figures for 2006/7 onwards have been released, as a matter of routine, on the ONR website. Nuclear materials balance figures for UK civil nuclear sites in 2013/2014 Site 
file_92.txt|Independent trustee register Managing your DC scheme The areas you need to focus on to ensure your defined contribution (DC) pension scheme is well run and more likely to deliver good member outcomes. 
file_630.txt|Safety performance Access to information on level crossing safety performance and statistics. Level crossing safety performance analysis is conducted by the Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) in their annual level crossings performance report. Level crossing safety performance has been broadly the same for the past ten years. This is despite significant increases in road and rail traffic over the same period. However, incidence of reported near misses and crossing misuse is steadily increasing. The RSSB annual level crossings performance report provides information on fatalities and injuries occurring during the year. Additional information relating to safety at level crossings is included in the RSSB annual safety performance report . Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_868.txt|This section lists our closed policy consultations and their outcome, dating back to 2011. For older consultations, please visit the National Archives . 
file_17.txt|Automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) Automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) is a secure, online service accessed through the Government Gateway. Find out what information you must provide to The Pensions Regulator and when you have to do it. If you have a query about completing your declaration see our automatic enrolment declaration questions . We’ve produced various resources to help you complete your declaration which can be found in related content . Why do I need to complete a declaration of compliance (registration)? Completing a declaration is the legal requirement to submit information to the regulator about how you’ve complied with your employer duties. If you don’t do it in time, you could be fined. On this page When do I have to do it? Key points You must provide certain information to the regulator about how you’ve complied with the automatic enrolment duties, such as how many people you’ve automatically enrolled and into which pension scheme(s). You must complete your declaration of compliance even if you don’t have anyone to automatically enrol. Declaration is mandatory and you could get fined if you don’t do it in time. Your declaration deadline is five calendar months after your staging date. Declaration provides a snapshot of your workforce on your staging date and you’ll need to account for each person. You can complete your declaration by answering questions and providing details online . You should start filling in your details as soon as you can. What information do I need to provide? You’ll need your letter code and PAYE reference to access the declaration of compliance online service: Letter codes The letter code is a 10-digit reference beginning with a ‘1’ that’s unique to every employer. It can be found on all written correspondence from us. If you don’t know yours or have never received it, please contact customersupport@autoenrol.tpr.gov.uk providing the following: employer name your contact details (telephone number, email address, job role). PAYE references Your PAYE reference is on a P6 / P9 coding notice. It can also be found on your white payslip booklet, P30BC. You’ll need to tell us things like how many people were in employment on your staging date , how many of those you’ve automatically enrolled and how many people were already in a pension scheme with you. You’ll need to account for everyone who worked for you on your staging date so make sure you provide exact numbers. We’ll also need details about the pension scheme (or schemes) you’re using for automatic enrolment, particularly the employer pension scheme reference (EPSR) or pension scheme registry number (PSR number). If you don’t have this reference on your scheme paperwork, make sure you contact the trustees or managers of the scheme to get this in good time. Back to top Declaration of compliance (registration) checklist You can use our declaration checklist to help you gather all the information you need to provide us with for your automatic enrolment declaration. Back to top When do I have to do it? The deadline for completing your declaration of compliance is five calendar months from your staging date. For example, if your staging date is 1 November 2014, you must submit your declaration to us no later than 31 March 2015. If your declaration deadline falls on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday, you can provide your declaration on the next working day. You should make a start filling in details before your staging date. Filling in details as you go through your planning process will help you avoid missing your deadline. Because the purpose of the declaration is to tell us about every person who was in employment on your staging date, you won’t be able to complete it or submit it to us until after your staging date. If you’ve postponed automatic enrolment for any of your staff, you mustn’t submit your declaration until after the postponement period has ended. This could mean there’s very little time between the end of the postponement period and your declaration deadline, which is why it’s a good idea to fill in details as you get them. You can complete everything in advance except for the information about your workforce. Don’t leave it until the last day to start – you’re likely to run out of time and won’t be fully compliant. Why do I need to complete a declaration of compliance (registration)? 
file_572.txt|The legislative framework for safety regulation ORR as Britain's rail industry regulator As the independent safety and economic regulator for Britain's railways, we play a pivotal role in ensuring the industry delivers a safe, effective and efficient railway, focused on the needs of its users and responsive to the priorities of its funders. We expect businesses to achieve proper control of risks by having excellent safety management systems. We expect the rail industry to understand the risks it creates and how to measure their performance in controlling these. We expect strong leadership to deliver a safe railway. Our major concern is to ensure the industry controls the risks from train accidents, without losing sight of other risks that need to be controlled, such as slips, trips and falls by workers or on platforms, or the risk of track workers being hit by a train. We actively seek evidence of health and safety management and performance through our inspections, investigations of incidents and permissioning work. We can use its enforcement powers to secure legal compliance and require improvement if that is needed – see annex 1 for our enforcement activities in 2012-13. We encourage excellence, but will not enforce beyond the standard set down in law. As an integrated regulator, we are committed to ensuring our regulation helps the industry continue to get a better grip on its costs, whilst delivering the levels of safety, performance and efficiency which passengers, freight customers and taxpayers rightly expect. Our health and safety vision is for zero workforce and industry-caused passenger fatalities, with an ever decreasing overall safety risk. Law Our rail law comes from domestic and European legislation. We are the National Safety Authority (NSA) for European legislation on Britain's railways, particularly the Railway Safety Directive, and we also enforce domestic Health and Safety at work Act and associated regulations on all of Britain's railways. In practice, under these laws, we grant safety certificates and safety authorisations to allow duty holders to operate a railway business on the basis that they understand the risks they create and have a health and safety management system in place to control them. We are required to re-assess certificates and authorisation at least every five years, and our reassessment process conforms to a common European standard. We also check control of risks on a day-to-day basis by the management in each business, through our risk-based inspection work and investigations of incidents. ORR and Europe ORR works with other European regulators to help deliver sensible regulation and a common European approach; this allows trains to run through the Channel Tunnel to British and European destinations safely, and allows trains built in one country to operate in another and develop a common marketplace. Like our European neighbours, we keep the legal framework for safety on the railway under review and can propose changes if necessary. We do this in line with the principles of better regulation, which underpin all that we do. ORR's health and safety regulation strategy To realise our vision, we need to ensure that the industry prioritises health and safety issues in the right way. This is the basis of the inspection programmes in our business plan. Some of our inspection programmes are related to areas of physical risks such as workforce safety or asset safety, and others focus on areas of the safety management system that are key to protecting against harm, for example, the management of change and competence of people. The latter we call "enablers". By focusing on both areas simultaneously, to ensure rail businesses do the right things in the right way, we believe that we gain a rounded view of the rail industry's risk management capability and encourage the industry to adopt a risk-based mind-set. For each sector of the railway (mainline, Transport for London (TfL), trams and light railways, heritage) we understand the different risks they manage. Together these form a "risk landscape" which informs our own priorities and our planned activities / resource allocation so that they are best targeted on improved risk control – see annex 2 for our 2013-14 plans. Our use of RM3 Our railway management maturity model (RM3) helps us, and the industry, demonstrate what excellent health and safety management and risk control looks like. RM3 uses a five-point management maturity scale, which we use to help make a careful, balanced and objective judgement of duty holder's health and safety management systems and their capability to consistently and continually manage risk. We use the results of our RM3 assessments to gauge whether a duty holder's health and safety management system can deliver excellence in safety culture and risk control and perhaps more importantly, to identify a duty holder's strengths and weaknesses. These assessments are used to frame a mature conversation about how the duty holder can achieve future improvement. ORR Inspectors are careful to consider the currency, quantity, consistency and quality of the evidence used as the basis of RM3 assessments to support a mature risk-based regulatory approach that avoids unintended consequences. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_533.txt|Health and safety Health and safety It's our responsibility to ensure that those responsible make Britain's railways safe for passengers and provide a safe place for staff to work. Britain now has one of the safest railways in Europe – for passengers and for workers, but we cannot be complacent. There is always more the industry can do to improve this country's health and safety record even further. We regulate health and safety for the entire mainline rail network in Britain, as well as London Underground, light rail, trams and the heritage sector. How to report an incident Find out how to report an incident under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations (RIDDOR) 2013. Find out more about RIDDOR Our health and safety strategy Our approach to regulating the health and safety risks created and managed by businesses in the rail industry. 
file_908.txt|Code of Practice ORR compliance with the Code of Practice for National and Official Statistics We follow the Code of Practice for Official Statistics and we have included the below statements to show how we adhere to the code. Having been assessed by the UK Statistics Authority, our statistical releases now hold National Statistics status pdf icon PDF, 146 Kb . 
file_405.txt|skin checks; Example: wood dust. Wood dust can cause asthma when breathed in. High risk woods for causing asthma include some hardwoods and softwoods such as Western Red Cedar. Hardwood dust can also cause nasal cancer. Dermatitis may result from work with some types of wood. You must reduce exposures to all types of wood dust as far below the WEL of 5 mg/m3 as is reasonably practicable. You normally need to use health surveillance (Check employees health for any adverse effects related to work. May involve checking skin for dermatitis or asking questions about breathing and may need to be done by a doctor or nurse.) Help with identifying the right control is available on the COSHH essentials web tool . Control information for wood dust appears in: 
file_559.txt|The regulator’s view Health and safety across the rail sector: The regulator’s view In this section we include the summary results of our findings from our inspection work in 2013-14 with Network Rail, the passenger and freight train operators who run services on Britain's mainline railway network, and the findings of our work with Transport for London's companies, heritage railways and tram operators. We cover: 
file_463.txt|This section contains information about our parliamentary accountability. Parliamentary committee evidence Part of our accountability to the Secretary of State for transport requires us to provide evidence to parliamentary committees. The ORR Board section provides details of how the Board are held to account. Evidence submitted to Parliamentary Committees This page outlines how ORR works together with the UK and Scottish Parliaments and National Assembly of Wales. ORR's Board and its members are answerable to Parliament and this includes the obligation to supply written and oral evidence to Parliamentary committees when requested. This requirement includes the UK Parliament, Scottish Parliament and the National Assembly of Wales. ORR also provides parliamentary Committees with additional information on particular topical issues. Drawing from our expertise and experiences within the rail industry, both economic and safety, we are able to support and assist their existing inquiries. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_555.txt|Railway Safety Regulations 1999 Explains the application of the Railway Safety  Regulations 1999. The Railway Safety Regulations 1999 (RSR 99) required the installation of a form of train protection on the railway, and the staged withdrawal of Mark I rolling stock and of rolling stock with hinged doors without central locking. The RSR 99 were introduced to deal with safety risks highlighted by a series of accidents from trains passing signals at danger and collisions involving Mark 1 rolling stock. Under the RSR 99: A train operator must not operate a train without installing a train protection system for that train; An infrastructure manager must not permit the operation of any train without a train protection system for the relevant railway. A train operator must not operate Mark I or hinged door vehicles on the railway and the infrastructure manager must not permit the operation of such vehicles on the railway unless these vehicles have been modified to prevent the underframes of vehicles overrding. Regulation 6 of the RSR Regulations allows us to grant exemptions from any requirement imposed by the regulations and to attach conditions to any such exemptions. Review of the Regulations We carried out a review of RSR 99 in 2007. Most respondents agreed that the basic objectives of the Regulations had clearly been met with the completion of the Train Protection and Warning System (TPWS) fitment programme and withdrawal of Mark I rolling stock (apart from heritage vehicles operated on the mainline for which exemptions have been granted). However, there was a split in respondents who believed that that the Regulations should be retained to ensure that the higher safety specifications continue to be delivered, and those respondents who believed there was no value in retaining the Regulations because the key requirements of the legislation could be reflected in the Railway Group Standards and The Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS). Without a clear case to support immediate changes to RSR 99 review outcomes focussed on having identifiying areas for future improvement. In 2012 we started a review of the regulations under the Red Tape Challenge. We are reviewing these regulations along with the Railway Safety (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1997 and the Railway Safety (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2001. Our work on this is underway and consultation on proposals for revision is planned for Winter 2014. The RTC is a cross-Whitehall programme, and is led by a small central team across Cabinet Office and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills to review all regulations in force across a range of industry sectors. The starting point of the RTC is that 'a regulation should go or its aim be achieved in a different, non-government way, unless there is a clear and good justification for government being involved. And even where there is a good case for this, we must sweep away unnecessary bureaucracy and complexity, end gold-plating of EU directives, and challenge overzealous administration and enforcement.' Review of regulations concerning the rail industry was carried out in 2011 and a public consultation on initial findings was completed in November 2011. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_737.txt|How to complain under competition law How to complain under competition law Guidance on how to complain if you suspect that any company supplying goods or services relating to railways is involved in activities prohibited by the competition law. Who can complain and how? You do not have to be directly involved in an activity to make a complaint, nor do you have to be a business. You may get in touch with us if you suspect that any company supplying goods or services relating to railways is involved in activities prohibited by the competition law. Some examples of anti-competitive behaviour are provided on the competition issues page. This is not an exhaustive list and if you have any questions related to competition, please contact us . Business and other organisations Although there is no set format for making a complaint under the Competition Act 1998, we have set out a format at Annex D of our guideline on the application of competition law to services relating to railways pdf icon PDF, 920 Kb . A complaint should outline the nature of the issues and should include as much information as possible. It should be supported by any evidence you already have, such as notes of telephone conversations, copies of correspondence and anything else you may consider relevant. Passengers If you would like to make a complaint to us under the competition act, please first read our page about rail fares and car-park charges , the role of competition law. If you would still like to make a complaint, fill in our complaint form DOC icon DOC, 58 Kb with as much detail as you can before sending it to us. Complaints under the Competition Act 1998 must be made in writing and be supported by evidence. If the person complaining does not supply enough information with the complaint, we will not be able to consider it. The amount and detail of evidence we would expect a business or organisation to provide is higher than we would expect from individual passengers. However, we do still need enough to help us to quickly understand the issue and decide whether it is something we should look at more closely. When we have considered the material you have provided, we may need to ask you for more details. Complaints are an extremely important source of information about anti-competitive activity and we actively encourage complaints from businesses and individuals who suspect that a breach of the Competition Act is taking place. We will let you know how we propose to deal with your complaint within 20 days and will keep you informed of progress. Confidentiality In order to investigate a complaint fully, we will generally need to divulge the information we have obtained to the company being investigated. If you consider that any of the information you have provided to back up your complaint contains commercial information relating to a business/individual, and that its disclosure might seriously damage those interests, you should clearly mark it as confidential and explain why you think it should be treated as such. However, you should try to keep the amount of such information to a minimum to enable your complaint to be pursued effectively. If we consider it absolutely necessary to disclose any of the confidential information that you have provided, we will, where possible, discuss with you beforehand. We will not make public the identity of a complainant without his or her consent. There are circumstances where it is also possible to protect the identity of the complainant from the company being investigated. If you are concerned about the disclosure of your identity, you should raise this at the earliest opportunity. Further information 
file_613.txt|Training needs for managers Training needs for managers Useful guidance on identifying and developing training needs for rail managers on health, including links to free resources on training and competence management. We recognise that occupational health training needs for front line managers within and across rail businesses will vary significantly, particularly between infrastructure managers, contractors, and train operators. However, there will be some core areas of knowledge and understanding that most front line managers will need in order to be properly equipped to recognise and effectively manage work related health risks among their staff. We have set out good practice guidance on key health management topics which we believe most front line managers in the rail industry will need to understand. General guidance is also available on developing staff competence and on wider health and safety training, which rail companies may also find useful. Our guidance ' Developing and maintaining staff competence pdf icon PDF, 389 Kb ' helps explain how manager training forms a key element in implementing and maintaining a wider competence management system. HSE guidance ' Health and Safety Training – what you need to know ' gives basic good practice advice on who may need training, what form the training may take, and how to organise it. Managers will need to know: what you expect from them in terms of managing work related ill health, and how you expect them to deliver; they need to understand relevant legal requirements as well as your health and safety policies and procedures, where they fit in, and how you want health and safety managed; and they may also need training in the specific hazards of your processes and how you expect the risks to be controlled. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_641.txt|Crowding on trains Crowding on trains An explanation of our role in regulating health and safety aspects of passenger crowding, and how train operator crowding levels are monitored and managed. Crowding can be inconvenient, uncomfortable and lead to unpleasant travelling conditions, especially when passengers must stand very close together for prolonged periods. Crowding can also sometimes make passengers feel unsafe. Our role in ensuring train operating companies manage crowding As the health and safety authority for Britain's railways, we are responsible for ensuring railway companies protect passengers from any health and safety risks caused by crowded trains and infrastructure. Franchised commuter train operators are required to carry out passenger counts as part of their franchise contracts to demonstrate that adequate capacity is being provided. Where an operator of a London commuter train service exceeds levels of train crowding specified in the franchise contract, DfT can require the operator to produce an action plan for providing more capacity and alleviating overcrowding. There is no legal limit on the number of passengers that can travel in any given train coach as trains differ from other modes of transport – most notably buses and aeroplanes -  because of the heavy engineering design involved. This permits trains to operate effectively and safely even when fully loaded to maximum capacity. But despite being uncomfortable, and at times making passengers feel unsafe, there is no conclusive evidence linking crowding on trains with anything other than low level health and safety risks to individual passengers.  However, we continue to review the available evidence of links between overcrowded trains and ill-health effects on passengers. Who has responsibility for monitoring levels of crowding? The Department for Transport (DfT) monitors the levels of crowding at key stations and on the top 10 most crowded train services . They encourage train operating companies to plan their timetables to accommodate the passengers expected throughout the morning and evening peak periods. Separate regimes penalise operators for late trains or for services that do not meet the agreed timetable. DfT's contact details 
file_560.txt|An overview of Network Rail's effectiveness at managing health and safety risks. Management maturity Overview: Network Rail is currently heavily regulated because its health and safety management systems are still developing. Similar high-hazard sectors are less heavily regulated because they have a mature safety management culture. Successes, such as reducing risks at level crossings, show that with the right leadership Network Rail can manage risk maturely, but as our enforcement action shows – see annex 1 - we still find significant examples of failures to recognise and act quickly to control risk effectively. Network Rail's corporate safety audit process has begun to look at individual risk areas from basic principles rather than just checking standards compliance. This can have an important role in driving safety leadership. Network Rail's recent in-depth reviews have helped develop a better understanding of specific risk areas, their causes and how effectively they are being managed. Evidence: our 2013-14 inspections and interventions, using our RM3 management maturity model pdf icon PDF, 413 Kb , found a slight improvement in dutyholders' overall scores compared to 2012-13. Our interventions found some improvements in safety culture and safety leadership; positive improvements in the management of risks associated with level crossings; in managing earthwork risks; and in responding to severe weather. However, our work found too many cases where the performance and efficiency target focus of people's day jobs eclipsed the delivery of safety. We found evidence of a lack of consistent and robust safety leadership. The slow pace of change means many long-standing issues remain around the quantity, complexity and resourcing of initiatives to drive health and safety improvements. We found evidence of under-performing change management processes. Projects and initiatives are insufficiently embedded or evaluated to ensure risks are managed effectively. Level crossings Overview: level crossing safety continues to improve with a 12% reduction in the level of FWI. This momentum must be maintained, including improving users' understanding of the risks, especially at pedestrian user-worked crossings where there was a proportionate increase in fatalities in 2013-14. Network Rail's new dedicated crossing managers have improved individual crossing risk assessments in 2013-14. Network Rail closed a total of 804 crossings and achieved a 33% reduction on a normalised basis in CP4 compared with CP3; and is funded to reduce level crossing risk further in CP5. Evidence: at the start of 2013-14, Network Rail successfully recruited and trained over 100 level crossing managers to proactively inspect and provide customised risk assessments at individual crossings – an area we had previously pushed Network Rail to improve. We found evidence that these managers had developed good personal knowledge of issues affecting individual crossings which resulted in immediate risk reduction action. Nevertheless, there is an over-reliance on an old assessment model designed for national risk-ranking purposes (the 'all level crossing risk model'), and an underperformance in carrying out more suitable risk assessments. Our work showed that level crossing managers received insufficient initial training. Network Rail is currently rolling out a new risk assessment process – with ORR input – and updates to the risk model. In the longer term this should address the issue. We found evidence that Network Rail's engagement with authorised users of user-worked crossings was inconsistent. Looking ahead, Network Rail is using new technology to better actively warn crossing-users of approaching trains at currently passive crossings. To ensure these technologies are used effectively, we are working with Network Rail to develop a passive crossing strategy to improve crossing safety in and after CP5. We will consider RSSB's recent research into level crossing safety and those recommendations from investigations carried out by the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB). Over 2013-14, Network Rail commissioned manually-controlled barriers with obstacle detector crossings; a new type of crossing fitted with radar and laser systems that can detect obstacles blocking the running line. The limited initial trials of these systems have left some technical issues which we have challenged Network Rail to resolve. Infrastructure risks Overview: Network Rail's management of infrastructure risk showed evidence of improvement in its structures and earthworks and reductions in stretcher bar failures. We still had to enforce because of its failure to deliver basics like increases in the proportion of repeat track twist faults and the absence of electrical earthing at signal cabinets. We are concerned about the capability of its maintenance function to deliver sustained safe management of track and off-track assets. This is why, in our final CP5 determination, we ring-fenced maintenance budgets. Our pressure has led to Network Rail carrying out its own capability review of its maintenance functions. The outcomes of which will be known later in 2014. Network Rail still has much work to do to introduce measures to predict and respond to earthwork failures. Although there were similar numbers of failures to previous years, derailments declined which demonstrates improvement. Better understanding and management of drainage is a vital element to control risks at earthworks. Network Rail has finally identified and begun to plan proactive inspection of its drainage assets. We will use our interventions to ensure it carries these out. Network Rail has improved its management of structures, reducing its backlog of examinations and condition assessments, nearer to the level we would expect. The importance of safe maintenance of structures to the integrity of the network is reflected in the increased funding we allocated to Network Rail for its civil assets in CP5. Evidence: Network Rail's shift away from a rules-based towards a risk-based approach to asset inspection and management will help to better align its resources to close demonstrable asset risk gaps. Network Rail also needs to make better use of engineering solutions to control risk. Track and off track: we found evidence of an inability to deliver sustained safe track asset management. For example, there was a 7% under delivery of Network Rail's corrected track renewal programme and a rise in its maintenance work-bank volumes. Our inspections of maintenance delivery units in 2013-14 found a general compliance with minimum standards, characterised mainly by a reactive 'find and fix', rather than our preferred 'predict and prevent' approach. A consequence of this reactive approach is that faults are not always fixed in the lasting way we would expect. During 2013, the proportion of repeat 'level 2' track twist faults (where a track twist fault reappears) increased across the country. This shows a missed opportunity to secure effective long-term repairs. Our enforcement on this topic in Scotland in November 2013 revealed the scope for Network Rail to improve its staff competence, infrastructure access, work planning and resource levels. The freight train derailments in 2013 at Gloucester and Camden in London were caused by several different factors including poor track quality, the result of inadequate long-term maintenance and renewal. This included underlying track precursor conditions such as poor drainage. There has been a notable reduction in the stretcher-bar failures trend at switches and crossings and we anticipate further improvements driven by the planned roll-out of a new fatigue-resistant design, after our pressure following the 2007 Grayrigg derailment prosecution against Network Rail. We support Network Rail's initiatives to change its basic asset management philosophy. This includes a shift away from extensive, prescriptive written standards and rules, to a more risk-based, competence-reliant approach called 'business critical rules'. Similarly, Network Rail's depot project is aimed at introducing best practice to delivery units in areas such as work visualisation, planning and risk assessment. The volume and pace of planned changes over CP5 poses a large challenge, particularly in the first couple of years. We are looking to see a well-managed, staged approach to delivering these programmes – with appropriate resources, governance, assurance and review. These planned initiatives have the potential to move Network Rail towards excellence in asset management. Without the necessary management maturity that we would expect, they risk becoming missed opportunities. Earthworks: during 2013, we continued to press Network Rail to improve its understanding of the risks arising from failed earthworks during extreme weather, including taking enforcement in Scotland. We found evidence that poor vegetation management was reducing earthworks inspectors' ability to carry out examinations to assess the condition of these assets. Our efforts to secure better vegetation management arrangements came to a head with enforcement action in November 2013 to ensure adequate assessment of slope condition. Network Rail complied with our notice which required improvements to be delivered by mid-January 2014. Structures: Network Rail's own review of its asset management capability identified significant under-resourcing. We will continue to check how this is addressed and how well its engineer competency regime is embedded. These measures should build on the evidence we have seen of improved stewardship in the management of bridges, tunnels and viaducts. As assessment of civil asset conditions becomes more sophisticated, we expect that Network Rail may need to identify more interim risk controls at certain structures, in order to ensure it maintains a safe structures portfolio. Incidents at Sunderland and Denmark Hill led us to challenge Network Rail to develop an action plan to address the risks of delamination (a failure resulting from layers of different materials separating and losing their strength) at bridges with concrete encasement. Our inspection work will focus on this in 2014. Safety-by-design Overview: we have found insufficient evidence that Network Rail has considered the whole-life costs of major changes to infrastructure – not just the project capital costs – and taken the opportunity to improve safety. Changes may only be reasonably practicable at an early point in an infrastructure's life-cycle. It is important that Network Rail uses these opportunities to make advances to comply with the law, secure improvements for the next generation, and set standards for the rest of the network. Evidence: we inspected a number of Network Rail's projects and found good safety features in all the designs we considered, but noted further opportunities to secure safety benefits in some others. In some projects, our inspectors were satisfied that the choices Network Rail made were on the basis of a good understanding of risk. On the western development project, despite review and evaluation processes being applied, Network Rail did not show evidence of sufficient risk assessments that clearly demonstrated hazards had been eliminated or reduced so far as is reasonably practicable. This led us to serve improvement notices in April 2014. Maintenance and other stakeholders were influencing design decisions whereas the routes were not being sufficiently demanding clients in providing vision and strategic direction to push projects towards major safety improvements. Infrastructure worker safety risk Overview: Network Rail accepts our view that it must do much more to protect infrastructure and particularly track workers. Key developments such as 'Sentinel 2' have now been implemented and good use is being made of Network Rail's close-call procedures by workers to identify incidents that could have proved dangerous. The 10-point plan for improved worker safety has the potential to bring significant improvement, but needs maturity and commitment to be implemented successfully. Evidence: our analysis of incidents and risk evidence very clearly illustrates that actual FWI harm to infrastructure workers worsened by 22% in 2013-14 and remains far too high. It is now at its highest level for seven years. In recent years, the two biggest causes of worker fatality are being struck or crushed by trains or being involved in an at-work road accident. There were three fatalities and major injuries were up 16% and minor injuries up 15% in 2013-14. Workforce harm, normalised by workforce hours worked, increased 10% over the year due to overall increases in harm across all sections of the workforce, with the exception of on-board train crew and train drivers. We took action on several prosecution and enforcement cases relating to incidents involving infrastructure workers' safety – see our enforcement activity page. Progress to introduce new technologies that would help remove or reduce risk to infrastructure workers has been too slow and needs improvement. The lookout struck and killed by a train at Newark Northgate station in January 2014 was part of a track gang using ultrasonic equipment to test the rails. The use of available train-mounted equipment, such as plain line pattern recognition (rail defect identifying) equipment, would have helped to remove the need for workers to be on or about the track. Our CP5 final determination included targeted funding to improve protection and warnings to track workers, taking electrical isolations, and better and safer road-rail vehicles. While there were no working- at-height fatalities in 2013-14, worker falls from height still represent 28% of all worker FWI risk. Most incidents involve falls from scaffolding or other temporary structures. We still see too many working at height incidents involving poor risk assessment and/or insufficient provision and usage of fall-arrest, edge protection and other risk control equipment. Occupational road safety Overview: industry managers must remain alive to the role of fatigue in a mobile workforce, particularly the often overlooked drive home or back to the depot after a long shift. RSSB has issued useful guidance on its road driving risk website . Evidence: four infrastructure workers were killed in road accidents while on-duty over the last three years. The risk is not new but can benefit from improved industry reporting. The volume of confidential incident reporting and assessment system (CIRAS) reports about workforce fatigue management in 2013-14 confirms that this is a risk that the industry must manage better. Nottinghamshire police's investigation into the road accident that killed two welders on the A1 on 26 June 2013 is on-going. Both road risk and worker fatigue issues were identified by the trade unions' 2014 workers risk surveys. Network Rail's own analysis showed that occupational road safety incidents made up over 50% of its serious workforce accidents in CP4. Common causes included: reverse parking, speeding, unsupervised manoeuvres, reckless driving, using mobile phones when driving and faulty road vehicles. Occupational health performance Overview: Network Rail's overall occupational health performance levels are still lower than other comparable sectors and need significant improvement. Evidence: in 2013-14 we continued our on-going assessment of Network Rail's occupational health management performance. It focused on specific health risk areas: hand-arm vibration syndrome (HAVS); silica dust from ballast handling; and control of exposure to asbestos. Our site inspections found varying standards of compliance and a general lack of ownership and accountability. Often there was no suitable, co-ordinated and systematic approach to health management at route and site-levels, either by Network Rail or its contractors. During the year we also identified a number of specific areas of poor health management: over 300-Network Rail employee HAVS cases over CP4 – a high number; the lack of an effective plan to manage risks from handling asbestos; and poor arrangements for managing the health risks arising from silica dust. Network Rail's new health and wellbeing strategy puts effective management of occupational health at its heart and identifies appropriate key topic areas for specific attention. We note the commitment made at senior-level to improve health management through the proposed appointment of additional occupation health professionals and full-time health and wellbeing managers for each route. We have developed an additional RM3 element to assess dutyholders' management of occupational health. Last updated - 29 August 2014 
file_527.txt|Our head office address and telephone details Office of Rail Regulation Telephone: 020 7282 2000 - Fax: 020 7282 2040 How to get to our offices Our head office is situated in Kemble Street off Kingsway in central London not far from Covent Garden. By underground: Piccadilly line: Covent Garden or Holborn Circle and District lines: Temple Nearest mainline rail stations: Blackfriars - 15 minute walk Charing Cross - 10 minute walk We also have offices in Birmingham, Bristol, Glasgow, Manchester and York. Addresses are available on the map, please select the icons to view details. 
file_364.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_957.txt|Interim CEO of ONR announced 4 February, 2015 The Office for Nuclear Regulation (ONR) has appointed Les Philpott, deputy Chief Executive, as an interim CEO from 1 March 2015.  ONR will start recruiting for a permanent successor shortly. The current Chief Executive, John Jenkins, announced that he is leaving the post a year after having successfully set up the ONR as a public corporation.  ONR was previously an internal agency of the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) and John was recruited by HSE in June 2012 to lead the project to create ONR as a stand‑alone independent nuclear regulator. During his leadership, ONR was commended by the International Atomic Energy Agency in its 2013 peer review, and November 2014 follow up mission. John Jenkins said: “I am very honoured to have had the privilege of leading  ONR through its period of maximum change, culminating in its becoming a Public Corporation. After nearly a year of stability I am happy to be handing over the running of the organisation and to be seeking new challenges. My thanks go to the ONR Board, my colleagues, and most of all to the staff for their dedicated support.” Notes for editors The Office for Nuclear Regulation is a public corporation.  Its mission is to provide efficient and effective regulation of the nuclear industry, holding it to account on behalf of the public.  ONR independently regulates nuclear safety and security at 37 nuclear licensed sites in the UK. It also regulates the transportation of radioactive materials and ensures that safeguards obligations for the UK are met. ONR also oversees the decommissioning of nuclear sites and cooperates with international regulators on safety and security issues of common concern, including associated research. Les Philpott is already an Executive member of the ONR Board.  He is currently the Deputy Chief Executive of ONR, supporting the CEO in leading ONR. Les has wide experience in public management and his previous career included senior management posts in central government. He is a chartered accountant (public finance). 
file_297.txt|Register Registration is free and simple, and provides access to all content and functionality of the NRT portal: Bespoke reports.. Take full advantage of the functionality in the advanced query facility. Regular users will benefit from being able to save their own queries for later re-use. MyAccount.. Manage your own account - change your password, manage your email alerts, manage and retrieve your own reports. Newsletter. Keep up-to-date with the latest data releases and site developments. * Required field Spaces are allowed; punctuation is not allowed except hyphens and underscores. E-mail: * Details of how to activate your new account will be sent to the following email address. A valid e-mail address. All e-mails from the system will be sent to this address. The e-mail address is not made public and will only be used if you wish to receive National Rail Trend Portal newsletters. Confirm E-mail: * Please re-type your e-mail address to confirm it is accurate. Organisation: * For personal use, enter your name. Reason for use: What is your main reason for using the National Rail Trends Portal? Unsubscribe Unsubscribe We will occasionally send you newsletter to keep you up-to-date with the latest data releases and site developments. If you DO NOT wish to receive these newsletters, please tick this box. Terms and conditions I have read and agree to the Terms and Conditions of use. CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Math question: * Solve this simple math problem and enter the result. E.g. for 1+3, enter 4. Create your own report Create reports using our NRT Portal report wizard Search for report / data Enter the report title or keyword Secondary menu 
file_767.txt|Decisions library Decisions library This page contains archived track access decisions by section for the past 2 years. For older decisions please see the National Archives . Section 17 
file_986.txt|Consultation on Withdrawing the Regulatory Arrangements for the Qualifications and Credit Framework Consultations > Consultation on Withdrawing the Regulatory Arrangements for the Qualifications and Credit Framework Home Back This consultation is about the changes we are proposing to the Qualifications and Credit Framework (the QCF).  The consultation will run for 12 weeks and is running alongside an accompanying consultation on guided learning hours (GLH). Before responding, you may also wish to consider a recently published consultation on Lifting the Accreditation Requirement Consultation and our open letter about our future regulatory approach. Read the consultation Download the consultation in PDF format . [PDF, 714KB] Download the consultation in Word format [DOCX, 171KB] that you can fill in and send back to us. The consultation closed to responses on 16th October 2014. Contents: 
file_960.txt|ONR approves continued operation at Sizewell B 28 January, 2015 The Office for Nuclear Regulation (ONR) has confirmed that EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Ltd, the licensee, has demonstrated that Sizewell B nuclear power station in Suffolk can continue to operate safely until 2025. This decision follows comprehensive assessment of the Periodic Safety Review (PSR), a ten-yearly review of safety required on all nuclear sites. Although the PSR is not complete until an agreed programme of work has been delivered, the ONR has identified no issues of nuclear safety significance that could impact generation at Sizewell B to the next date of review (2025). ONR identified a number of areas for improvement for the licensee and will monitor its progress in completing this work. The ONRâ€™s assessment will be published in due course. 
file_827.txt|Platform gaps Information about railway station platform to train gaps and stepping distances. Over the years different types of rolling stock have been introduced and platforms constructed to different heights. This has meant that the stepping distance between platform edge and train coaches can vary at some stations around the network. If the gap is too big it can be a risk to passengers getting on and off trains. This is particularly the case for disabled and elderly passengers and people with small children and push chairs. Can the problem be solved? Opportunities should be taken, for example, where other station improvement work is being done, to improve all platforms not conforming to current accepted good practice. The Department of Transport has produced guidance on Accessible train and station design for disabled people. Network Rail has an ongoing programme identifying problem locations and developing an action plan. This is a risk based programme aimed at carrying out improvement works at the highest priority locations first. We accept that in many cases, particularly at platforms not used very much, upgrading may take time. There needs to be priority about the risk, the extent of the defects and the number of passengers exposed to the risk. It should be noted that it may be impossible to eliminate some platform gaps because they are located on track curves. Are there laws protecting passengers? Under current health and safety law, railway operators should reduce the risk from gaps as low as is reasonably practicable. For existing station platforms, a judgement has to be made as to whether it would be reasonably practicable to reduce the gaps and whether the cost of taking action would be disproportionate to the level of risk. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_644.txt|Tramway technical guidance Technical guidance notes for tramways - providing additional guidance for promoters, developers and designers of tramways. These technical guidance have been issued by us with the initial intention of addressing the immediate lack of specific standards that apply to the design, construction and operation of UK tramways. They represent good practice for tramways and supplement the existing general standards, guidance and Regulations that are applicable to such operations and should be read in conjunction with them. The guidance notes are the result of consideration and agreement by representatives drawn from the current operators, manufacturers and maintainers of UK tramway systems that formed the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) Tramway Standards Group. Assistance has also been sought from European standards bodies such as Verband Deutscher Verkehrsunternehmen (VDV) and academic institutions such as Manchester Metropolitan University. Guidance 
file_981.txt|Back This part of the Ofqual website has been designed to give you easier access to respond to our consultations and is open to allow anyone to comment on the work that we do. Each open consultation allows you to respond to as many or as few parts of the document as you wish, meaning that if you are only interested in an aspect of the consultation you can respond to that bit alone. Consultations Ofqual is committed to effective consultation; consultation which is targeted at, and easily accessible. In line with the Government’s Code of Practice on Consultation , Ofqual supports the seven criteria: Formal consultation should take place at a stage when there is scope to influence the policy outcome. Consultations should normally last for at least 12 weeks with consideration given to longer timescales where feasible and sensible. Consultation documents should be clear about the consultation process, what is being proposed, the scope to influence and the expected costs and benefits of the proposals. Consultation exercises should be designed to be accessible to, and clearly targeted at, those people the exercise is intended to reach. Keeping the burden of consultation to a minimum is essential if consultations are to be effective and if consultees’ buy-in to the process is to be obtained. Consultation responses should be analysed carefully and clear feedback should be provided to participants following the consultation. Officials running consultations should seek guidance in how to run an effective consultation exercise and share what they have learned from the experience. Commenting We are offering you the opportunity to comment on these consultations and in doing so we'd like you to be aware that we will not usually delete comments so long as you keep within the commenting guidelines below. We will never edit comments that you leave. We would ask that you avoid posting: party political material. This is a government website. We cannot publish party political content under the normal rules governing the Civil Service. Essentially it is advisable not to refer specifically to any political party. This does not mean you cannot raise controversial issues, potentially libelous, false, or defamatory statements, any commercial endorsement, promotion of any product, service or publication, language which is offensive, intemperate, or provocative. This not only includes obvious swear words and insults, but any language to which people reading it could reasonably take offence, Please also ensure that your ideas and comments: are respectful of others - comments should not be malicious or offensive in nature, and should not constitute a personal attack on a person's character, don't incite hatred on the basis of race, religion, gender, nationality or sexuality or other personal characteristic don't reveal personal details, such as private addresses, phone numbers, email addresses or other online contact details don't break the law - this includes libel, condoning illegal activity, and breaking copyright are reasonably concise, and don't constitute spamming of the site are in English - unfortunately, we do not currently have the resource to moderate comments in other languages are relevant - please don't post messages unrelated to this channel or the subject under discussion We reserve the right to delete ideas and comments that breach our guidelines and to suspend the ability to comment at any time. Comments are usually held in a queue before publication and will usually be published within 24 hours of submission. If you wish to remove a comment that you have made, or enquire about why a comment was moderated, please contact public.enquiries@ofqual.gov.uk with details. If you have a specific question that requires a response, then you may find it helpful to contact the Ofqual Helpdesk on 0300 303 3342. Credits This site is developed and maintained by the Ofqual Web Team and the theme is based on Commentariat by Steph Grey. 
file_210.txt|We have published the results of 2 investigations into the advertising of medicines. Cases upheld – October 2014 
file_400.txt|COSHH and hairdressers - key messages Frequent contact with water and shampoo can  irritate the skin leading to dermatitis. Some hairdressing and cleaning products can  cause dermatitis and skin allergies. Some dusty products like persulphates and  henna can cause asthma. Some hair sprays can make asthma worse. There are simple things you can do to prevent dermatitis and asthma: Keep the workplace well ventilated. Wear disposable non-latex gloves for  shampooing, colouring and bleaching. Dry your hands thoroughly after washing with  a soft towel. Moisturise your hands as often as possible. Change your gloves between clients. Check your skin regularly for early signs of  skin problems. Visit the HSE hairdressing web pages for more information. Resources 
file_886.txt|Disputed amendment to contracts (Section 22a) Disputed amendment to contracts (Section 22a) This page contains all ORR decisions made in the last six months relating to contested applications for the amendment of current Track Access Contracts. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . Date 
file_421.txt|
file_984.txt|Open consultation Help us improve GOV.UK Please don't include any personal or financial information,   for example your National Insurance or credit card numbers. What you were doing 
file_724.txt|Applications, decisions and consolidated agreements Applications, decisions and consolidated agreements This section contains all High Speed 1 (HS1) track access application consultations, decisions and consolidated agreements. Current track access applications This section contains all application forms, documents and responses we make public, relating to HS1 track access applications we are currently considering. This includes: new track access contracts; and amendments to track access contracts. 2014 London & South Eastern Railway Limited 2nd SA London & South Eastern Railway Limited 1st SA London & South Eastern Railway Limited 4th SA Decisions on track access applications This section contains all decisions we have made in relation to HS1 track access applications. This includes: new track access contracts; and amendments to track access contracts. 2014 London & South Eastern Railway Limited 4th SA London & South Eastern Railway Limited 1st SA London & South Eastern Railway Limited Approved TAA London and South Eastern Railway Limited 3rd SA London and South Eastern Railway Limited 2nd SA London and South Eastern Railway Limited 1st SA High Speed 1 consolidated agreements A consolidated agreement is a document incorporating all approved amendments to the existing approved agreement. They are provided by HS1 Limited for reference purposes only. Certain information may be excluded from these consolidated versions. This is because we may withhold from publication information which relates to the affairs of a private individual or a corporate or unincorporated body if we are satisfied that publication would or might seriously and prejudicially affect the interests of that person or body. TOC / FOC Consolidated agreement Eurostar International Limited Conformed copy as at December 2012 and including the 3rd supplemental agreement. (The new agreements reflect changes as a result of a revised Part D of the HS1 Network Code.) pdf icon PDF, 115 Kb London and South Eastern Railway Limited 
file_682.txt|Consultation letter : CEPA's report on indexing the allowed rate of return. ( Report pdf icon PDF, 340 Kb ) 18 Oct 2007 Consultation letter: Freight only line charge conclusions pdf icon PDF, 90 Kb . This letter explains our decisions on the cost allocation and charging systems for freight only lines 15 Oct 2007 Consultation on the possessions compensation regime pdf icon PDF, 754 Kb (see accompanying consultants reports ) - see the consultation on Network Rail's website 11 Oct 2007 
file_82.txt|Independent trustee register Understanding your role Your duties are wide-ranging - from the collection of contributions to the investment of assets and payment of benefits. Scheme members look to you to make sure that their pension benefits are secure. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit We provide a free online learning programme called the Trustee toolkit which you should complete, unless you arrange the equivalent learning. You must login or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
file_177.txt|For all other device enquiries Press enquiries Go to the contacts for press enquiries How to make a complaint The MHRA operates formal procedures for dealing with complaints about the Agency's administrative services and our aim is to respond to all written complaints within seven working days. Go to the section on how to make a complaint Pharmacovigilance Service Team This section provides information about the Pharmacoviglance Service Team, which aims to be the first port-of-call for marketing authorisation holders (MAHs), Healthcare Professionals and the General Public enquiring about any pharmacovigilance-related matters. Go to the page on the Pharmacovigilance Service Team Access MHRA data for research You can apply to use data for public health research from the MHRA’s Yellow Card database on suspected adverse drug reactions and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). For further information, please select the appropriate link below: 
file_605.txt|Managing work related stress Managing work related stress in the railway industry This page provides an overview of ORR's position on managing work related stress in the rail industry, highlighting the associated costs as well as the business benefits, of preventing stress before harm occurs. Our health programme for 2014-19 pdf icon PDF, 1,751 Kb seeks to move the rail industry beyond legal compliance towards consistent achievement of best practice in managing occupational health, including work related stress. Stress is recognised by rail employers and trades unions alike as a key health concern within the industry, with significant costs to individuals and businesses. Failure to properly manage work related stress can lead to ill-health, an increase in human error in the workplace, and can be costly to employers. The direct costs of mental ill health to UK employers, including sickness absence and reduced productivity due to presenteeism, have been estimated at £26 billion a year ( Centre for Mental Health report 'Mental Health at Work: Developing the Business Case 2007' ). The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) reported that stress and mental ill health were the biggest cause of long-term sickness absence in 2013 for the third year running. 42% of employers reported an increase in stress related absence over the previous year, with 22% reporting an increase among their managers. Workload, management style, and organisational change were seen as key drivers. In recent research by MIND , almost a third of the workers polled did not feel able to talk openly to their line manager if they felt stressed. The TUC biennial survey 2012 again ranked stress first (63%) in the top five hazards of concern to workers in the transport and communications sector. Data from the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) indicate that in 2011/12 an estimated 10.4 million days were lost to work related stress, anxiety or depression. On average, each affected person took 24 days off work. Our position paper on work related stress pdf icon PDF, 1,006 Kb sets out how we will work with the industry to harness the health, and also the business benefits, of better stress management. We are looking for a comprehensive three tier approach to managing stress, which gives sufficient priority to preventing stress through organisational changes and job design, supported by good practice interventions to help individuals to stay well and at work . We are keen to see rail employers take these steps because: There are clear legal duties under health and safety law to assess and manage work related stress, as well as responsibilities under employment law - ill health caused by stress can attract costly compensation claims. Managing stress well can also save rail companies money and improve efficiency (good health is good business) – many examples of cost and productivity savings can be found on HSE's website: business solution case studies . There is further guidance on what rail employers need to do , and on how line managers, Human Resources (HR) professionals and employees can contribute to preventing work related stress . ORR is keen to work with the rail industry to share existing good practice and learn lessons from both outside and within the rail industry. In this section 
file_747.txt|Track access Track access We make sure the passenger and freight train operating companies have fair access to the rail network – and that best use is made of capacity. If a railway operator wants to access the railway network, they have to apply to us for a track access agreement with Network Rail. 
file_525.txt|Working at ORR Working at ORR ORR has nearly 300 staff. Our people are based in offices in Birmingham, Bristol, Glasgow, London, Manchester and York, which means we have a good understanding of what goes on all over the country. Types of careers at ORR: Railway engineering and/or management 
file_63.txt|Ensure defined contribution (DC) schemes handle contributions and financial transactions promptly and accurately. Ensure member data is held securely and there are effective disaster recovery plans in place. Ensure that there is an appropriate and robust retirement process in place. Contributions Ensure that your clients’ schemes have a payment schedule. Check that employer and employee contributions are paid according to the schedule and that trustees seek to recover any contributions that haven’t been paid in full or on time. For more information about trustees’ responsibilities, go to maintaining contributions . Your clients’ schemes should offer flexible contribution options that enable members to vary their contributions. Options that the employer may want to offer members include additional contributions, match funding or salary sacrifice. Ensure that members are regularly informed that their level of contributions is a key factor in determining the size of their pension fund. Back to top Processing core scheme financial transactions Your clients’ schemes should have adequate internal controls to ensure that all core scheme financial transactions are processed promptly and accurately. These transactions include: bulk transfers in and out member fund switches and redirections receipt of contributions member unitisations and investment of contributions investment and disinvestment of scheme assets individual transfers in and out quotes and payments benefits payable on death purchase of annuities and payments of lump sums. You should be able to show trustees how your arrangements ensure that the scheme meets legal requirements relating to the services you provide. Back to top Administration systems Ensure that systems used to store scheme information are capable of managing the integrity and security of member data. Back to top Disaster recovery and business continuity planning Ensure a disaster recovery plan is in place in case physical damage occurs to your premises or any other service provider. You should help trustees to ensure there are sufficient financial resources to put things right and that this cost isn’t incurred by members. You should consider whether it is appropriate to insure against the risks of a significant problem occurring. Retirement process You should ensure that: members are given the option of selecting a retirement income product (eg an annuity) from an insurance company of their choice and one other than they saved with (the open market option) the scheme has an appropriate and robust retirement process which sets out the key activities, timeframes and who is responsible for them members are supported by having access to an independent financial adviser and / or annuity broker or by being given information that enables them to make their own decisions – for more information go to retirement options . Back to top Record-keeping Ensure that all member data for your clients’ schemes is complete and accurate, and evaluated regularly. Go to record-keeping . Back to top Detailed guidance 
file_456.txt|Our vision and strategy Our vision and strategy Our long-term vision for the mainline railway industry is a partnership of Network Rail, operators, suppliers and funders working together to meet the needs of passengers and freight customers and deliver a safe, high performing, efficient and developing railway. Our strategy focuses on how we; as the independent economic and safety regulator, will help the industry to meet these challenges and achieve a better public interest outcome. Our vision of success for Britain's railways Zero workforce and industry-caused passenger fatalities, with an ever-decreasing overall safety risk. Satisfaction levels of passengers and freight customers being equivalent to the best in railways and other forms of transport. Efficiency equivalent to that achieved by the best comparable railways in the world. Our principal roles Securing delivery by the industry of its regulatory obligations. Helping the mainline railway meet its long-term challenges. Enhancing and keeping under review the industry's framework of incentives, accountabilities and competition. Our five strategic objectives for 2014-15 1. Drive for a safer railway: Enforce the law and ensure that the industry delivers continuous improvement in the health and safety of passengers, the workforce and public, by achieving excellence in health and safety culture, management and risk control. 2. Support a better service for customers: Use our powers to hold the industry to account for performance and standards of service across the railway network, for passengers and freight. Promote on-going improvement in the experience of passengers by encouraging the industry to work together, including to provide greater transparency of information. 3. Secure value for money from the railway, for users and funders: Strengthen incentives for the whole industry to work together to drive greater efficiency from the use and maintenance of existing railway capacity, and more cost-effective investment in the network. 4. Promote an increasingly dynamic and commercially sustainable sector: Support sustainable economic growth by promoting innovation and efficient long-term investment across the rail industry through the appropriate development of effective markets and regulatory intervention. 5. Be a high-performing regulator: Develop and apply proportionate and risk-based regulation, taking a whole-sector approach. Make more effective use of our resources across safety and economic functions, maximise the value of our regulation while minimising the costs of compliance for the industry. Last updated - 22 August 2014 
file_534.txt|Regulation and certification Health and safety regulation and certification This section gives an overview of the main rail-specific legislation that we enforce using our health and safety powers under the Health and Safety and Work etc. Act 1974. As the health and safety regulator for the rail industry, we deliver advice and enforcement to help ensure the industry is safe for both passengers and workers. ROGS Read more about ROGS Safety approvals under orders and private acts Some transport operators may require approval under Transport and Works Act Orders, Light Railway Act Orders and private Acts of Parliament for activities such as a particular maximum speed of operation; approval to a particular maximum axle load; or the use of particular types of rolling stock (including tramcars). Read more about safety approvals European railway safety legislation The Railway Safety Directive created a common European framework for railway safety across Europe. In Great Britain, the requirements of the Directive are applied by ROGS only to the mainline railway. (Though ROGS does introduce some similar requirements for other railways and transport systems.)  The European Commission has introduced Regulations called common safety methods to support the common European safety framework. Read more about European railway safety legislation Interoperability This is a European Commission initiative to promote a single market in the rail sector. The legislation aims to remove technical barriers to the supply of equipment and the running of trains between member states. Read more about interoperability Train driving licences and certificates On 6 April 2010 the Train Driving Licences and Certificates Regulations 2010 came into force. This brings the requirement to hold a licence and certificate to drive a train into force between now and 2018. Read more about train driving licences and certificates Rail vehicle accessibility On 6 April 2010 the Rail Vehicle Accessibility (Non-Interoperable Rail System) Regulations 2010 came into force giving ORR new responsibilities for monitoring and enforcing compliance with regulations designed to improve accessibility for rail passengers. Read more about rail vehicle accessibility Railway Safety (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1997 The Railway Safety (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1997 converted about 100 prescriptive requirements into five goal-setting duties which cover things such as preventing unauthorised access to the railway infrastructure and providing adequate braking systems. Read more about Railway Safety Regulations 1997 Railway Safety Regulations 1999 The Railway Safety Regulations 1999 (RSR 99) required the installation of a form of train protection on the railway, and the staged withdrawal of Mark I rolling stock and of rolling stock with hinged doors but without central locking. Post-implementation evaluation shows that RSR 99 have had a positive and real influence on safety related practices in the rail industry. 
file_948.txt|Useful links Resources This section provides ONR's key resources, including guidance on various issues, key reports including site reports and the various reports in response to Fukushima. You will also find ONR corporate publications and information relating to previous ONR events and information released under freedom of information. Popular resources 
file_166.txt|MORE Log in Welcome to MORE – the Manufacturer’s On-line Reporting Environment. This system has been especially designed by the MHRA to provide device manufacturers and suppliers and their authorised representatives, a simple electronic means of submitting Vigilance reports to the Agency and of providing responses to MHRA incident investigations. Registered Users - Registered Users may log in below. Not yet registered? - If you have not yet registered as a MORE account holder, click the link above and submit the requested details for verification. Please note that the provision of certain information is compulsory for registration. On-line Help is available if required. For security reasons, new accounts will not be activated until registration details have been checked and verified by the MHRA. loginMORE In the wrong place? - If you are not a manufacturer but are a medical device user - whether a healthcare or social care professional, or a patient or member of the public - there are separate reporting arrangements for you. Click here to return to our other online report forms Email Address: 
file_570.txt|Health and safety report 2013 Health and safety report 2013 ORR's report on health and safety on Britain's railways in 2012-13: a foreword by the Office of Rail Regulation's chief executive and Director of Railway Safety. Like last year , this year's health and safety report contains positive evidence that Britain continues to have one of the safest railways in Europe, with a number of successes: London Underground Limited (LUL) again achieving zero industry-caused workforce and passenger fatalities; a notable 6.4% reduction in the overall mainline system safety risk; and continuing improvement to mainline workforce safety. Download the Health and Safety Report 2013 pdf icon PDF, 1,190 Kb Safety on Britain's railways is ORR's chief priority. Whilst evidence suggests that Britain's railways continue to manage risks well, we must not and will not become complacent. The recent runaway freight train incident and fire in Lac-Megantic Quebec, Canada and the passenger train derailment in Bretigny-sur-Orge in Paris, both starkly demonstrate the consequences of a single catastrophic incident: seemingly low levels of risk count for nothing when such tragic events occur. Our draft determination for 2014-19 provides specific additional funding for Network Rail to improve track work safety, by improving electrical system isolations, the design of road-rail vehicles, alerts to warn workers on or near the track of approaching trains, reduce risks at level crossings. As part of our integrated regulatory approach, we decided to allow Network Rail more time to make their planned efficiencies in maintenance after careful consideration of their possible safety implications and we have also provided additional funding (a total of £400million) to enable Network Rail to make its civil assets, such as cuttings, tunnels and structures more sustainably resilient in the longer term and deliver the infrastructure outputs that taxpayers, passengers and others are funding it to deliver. We applaud the successful delivery of a safe 2012 Olympics and Paralympics as a result of strong cross-industry co-ordination and cooperation, which included the involvement of our colleagues since 2009, during which London Underground Limited (LUL) and Transport for London's other services carried record-breaking numbers of passengers safely and efficiently, including enabling increased service accessibility. The lessons learnt from these successes are now being banked must become part of business as usual. Further improvements to Britain's railways are possible. This report provides a detailed assessment for 2012-13, but looking ahead our priorities for 2013-4 include: continuing to promote further improved occupational health management, improving workers, especially track worker, safety and an integrated cross-office focus on ensuring the mainline industry's infrastructure assets are safer and more resilient. Richard Price, Chief Executive, ORR Ian Prosser, Director of Railway Safety, ORR In this section: 
file_291.txt|Subscribe Disclaimer Every effort is made to ensure that the information provided on all HSE's websites and online services is accurate and up to date, but no legal responsibility is accepted for any errors, omissions or misleading statements. Links HSE is not responsible for, and cannot guarantee the accuracy of, information on sites that it does not manage; nor should the inclusion of a hyperlink be taken in itself to mean endorsement by the HSE of the site, the site owner, or any specific content to which it points. Third party content HSE may also embed third party content such as videos, RSS or twitter feeds on its site. HSE is not responsible for and cannot guarantee the accuracy of this content nor for any related content. It is also not responsible for the quality or accessibility of this content nor of any related content. The embedding of this content on its site should not be taken in itself to mean endorsement by HSE of the content. Further information on third party content is available . Accessibility While we make every effort to ensure the website is accessible to all we are aware of certain problems. For more information about this check our accessibility statement . Further Information Information about the business of HSE is regularly made available through official publications, press releases and publicity. See also 
file_701.txt|Land disposal cases - condition 7 of Network Rail's licence Condition 7 of Network Rail's network licence safeguards against the inappropriate disposal of land assets. It is important that land in which Network Rail has an interest and which may be important to the continuing operation and future development of the network, and services relating to railways, is not disposed of against the public interest. We have adopted land disposal procedures for consultation and decision making pdf icon PDF, 303 Kb with a view to making the process efficient, effective and transparent. See our land disposal page for details of our policy. Land disposal casework 2014 Commencement of two month notice period Network Rail-owned property 
file_610.txt|Rail manager competence Rail manager competence on occupational health Overview of why and how the rail industry should improve the competence of its managers on health, with links to more detailed advice and supporting resources. One of the aims of our health programme 2014-19 pdf icon PDF, 1,751 Kb is to encourage excellence in health risk management by helping the industry to improve its managers' competence on health . Ensuring that your managers have the right level of knowledge and skills in managing occupational health will help you to comply with health and safety law , and should also deliver real business benefits. Occupational health training needs for managers will vary across rail businesses. However, there are some key areas of knowledge that we believe most rail managers will need in order to fulfil their responsibilities for managing the health of their staff. As well as setting out these key areas of knowledge, we provide advice on how to achieve good practice , including some potential sources of help to support rail companies. These include training resources for larger rail companies, including potential development of a health risk management training qualification tailored for rail managers, as well as free health training resources for smaller companies. In this section 
file_919.txt|Government targets £1bn savings from rail industry reform Rail passengers and taxpayers alike stand to benefit from a radical shake-up of the railways which could reduce running costs by up to £1bn per year and lead to better and more efficient train services, Transport Secretary Philip Hammond announced today. 
file_287.txt|Here you can find resources relating to the export and import of dangerous chemicals. Guidance - How to guides and links to other guidance sources Publications - Links to related legislation and leaflets Useful links - Links to other information sources and related topics Keep up to date sign up for our eBulletin - You will receive an update every time HSE publishes new information on the export and import of chemicals Resources 
file_734.txt|Enforcement of HS1 limited Enforcement of HS1 limited We discharge our function under regulation 13 of The Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 through monitoring and enforcing High Speed 1 (HS1) Limited's compliance with the obligations relating to asset stewardship, reporting and minimal operational standards set out in the concession agreement. Our enforcement powers under the concession agreement are modelled on our enforcement powers under the Railways Act 1993 . We can make enforcement orders, including preventative action for likely future breaches. We can require compliance with an order through seeking an injunction or other relief or remedy. However, we are not able to levy financial penalties. HS1 Limited's failure to comply with an enforcement order which has not been appealed is an event of default under the concession agreement, which may lead to termination of the concession agreement by the secretary of state. We expect to take a proportionate and timely approach to monitoring and enforcement, recognising the processes set out in the concession agreement. In taking enforcement action under our powers in the concession agreement we will apply the principles and procedures in our existing economic enforcement policy. This states that we will concentrate on serious or systemic problems and take a stepped approach to enforcement. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_42.txt|Workplace pensions. We're all in. The Pensions Regulator Are you an employer? Workplace pensions are here. Act now. It's the law. Even if you employ just one person, you must provide a workplace pension. The law requires all employers to provide a workplace pension for certain staff. Find out how the change in law will affect you. What is automatic enrolment? The law on workplace pensions has changed. Every employer with at least one member of staff now has new duties, including putting those who meet certain criteria into a workplace pension scheme and contributing towards it. This is called automatic enrolment. It’s called this because it’s automatic for your staff – they don’t have to do anything to be enrolled into your pension scheme. But it’s not automatic for you. You need to take steps to make sure they’re enrolled. Does the change in law affect me? Yes, if you employ at least one member of staff, you’ll need to automatically enrol them into a pension scheme if they meet certain criteria. Get started by reading our essential guide to automatic enrolment . View the essential guide to automatic enrolment When will the change in law affect me? Each employer has a date by which they need to comply with the law. This is called your staging date. Find out yours now with our staging date tool . Find out your staging date What do I need to do and by when? There are a number of tasks that will need to be completed by your staging date, including assessing your workforce to see who’s eligible, choosing a pension scheme, and communicating to staff. To help you prepare use our automatic enrolment action planner to find out what you need to do and by when. Create my action plan How do I nominate a contact? You need to tell us who’ll be responsible for managing the automatic enrolment process by nominating a contact. Over the coming months, we'll send help and guidance to this person. Nominate a contact What if I'm not an employer? If you’re a member of staff, not an employer, check if automatic enrolment applies to you . The Pensions Regulator is empowered by the UK government to regulate work-based pensions. Join us on social media 
file_33.txt|Back to top Keeping payment information and records Incorrect or out-of-date information is the main cause of payment failure and disputes between an employer and their scheme provider or trustees. You must keep information and records about what contributions you pay to your pension scheme for six years (in most cases). This will help you ensure the correct contributions are paid and provide evidence if there’s a dispute. Records you should keep include: staff gross earnings staff and employer pension scheme contributions due to be paid (and if different the actual amounts paid). You need to keep information on contributions and membership up to date and communicate any changes to your pension scheme provider or trustees. As part of your normal day-to-day administration arrangements it’s good practice to provide the following ‘payment information’ to your scheme: any changes to a member’s earnings or contribution entitlement details of members leaving or joining the scheme. Your pension scheme provider or trustees need this payment information to meet their duties such as monitoring contributions and reporting material payment failures to the regulator. You should agree a process for this when you set up the scheme. This may include you giving updated earnings information at the same time as you pay contributions across to the scheme. Providers or trustees may ask you for additional payment information which you must provide within seven working days. You risk being fined by the regulator if you don’t provide this information on time. You can find further information on the records you must keep in record-keeping . Back to top Pension fund limits There are limits to the amount which can be held in a pension fund and the amount that can be contributed to it each year for a member without the imposition of certain tax charges. Go to understanding the annual allowance for pension schemes on HM Revenue and Customs website . If you’re unsure what to pay and when, contact your pension scheme provider or trustees. Back to top Defined benefit funding If you run a defined benefit (DB) scheme, you need to be aware that most schemes providing any defined benefits need to meet a statutory funding objective, which assesses the required levels of funding for a scheme. As an employer, you’ll need to work closely with trustees to ensure that your scheme meets these funding requirements. In particular, you’ll have to agree with the trustees: a statement of funding principles a schedule of contributions consistent with these principles. Where the statutory funding objective is not met, you have to agree on a recovery plan setting out the steps that will be taken to put things right. For more information on how to ensure your DB scheme is appropriately funded and that contributions are paid on time go to funding your defined benefit scheme . 
file_319.txt|Browse reports / data Regional usage This section provides passenger journeys data for each Region of Great Britain, covering the volume of journeys between Regions and within Regions. It also looks at cross-border flows between England, Scotland and Wales. Regional usage 
file_501.txt|The Rail industry in Britain The Rail industry in Britain Britain's railways are vital to the country's economy. More people and more goods than ever move by train today – the number of passenger journeys rose by more than 50% between 2003 and 2013 and the railways carry 17% more freight than in 2001. In 2012 alone, over 1.5 billion passengers used the rail network – an increase of 8%. That's 24,000 trains every day. Figures suggest that demand will continue to rise, with 14% more passengers and 19% more freight forecast by 2019. Improvement projects are planned to increase capacity of the railways and keep pace with growing traffic. These include Crossrail, the Edinburgh-Glasgow Improvement Project and the Northern Hub. More generally, electrification of the network will continue, for example the South Wales mainline, and there will be improved railway links to ports and airports across Britain. 
file_746.txt|Market studies Market studies Information on how we fulfil our responsibilities to keep rail markets under review and to take appropriate measures where markets are not working to the benefit of users or funders.. We have a range of functions and responsibilities to keep railway markets under review and to take appropriate measures where markets are not working to the benefit of users or funders. Our statutory responsibilities to monitor markets arise from sector specific legislation: the Railways Act 1993 and the Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 , and from responsibilities which we hold concurrently with the OFT and other regulators under the Enterprise Act 2002 . We fulfill these responsibilities through a programme of market studies. Potential outcomes from our market studies may be a clean bill of health or our findings may indicate: we need to review study the market in more depth; the issues identified could be effectively dealt with using sectoral legislation, for example using licence enforcement or by the DfT under franchise arrangements; there are grounds for making a market investigation reference to the Competition Commission; or there has been a breach of competition law, in which case we may launch a separate investigation. Guidance We have published a guidance document on our approach to market studies pdf icon PDF, 383 Kb which provides further details on how we intend to fulfil our responsibilities. We have also published our market study prioritisation criteria, in which we outline which areas to look at next. Our guidance sets out our approach, which has three stages. These are: an initial diagnostic research study (usually lasting up to three months) in which we will gather information in-house: from our own records; governmental; and public sources, to assess how a market is functioning and whether there appear to be market problems that warrant further attention; a more detailed consultative public study (usually lasting up to six months), including consultation with external stakeholders, in which we make a fuller assessment of any concerns identified during the research study; and a concluding remedies study (usually lasting up to twelve months), including further engagement and appropriate public consultation with external stakeholders in which we reach a view on the appropriate remedies for market problems, we would use this stage, for example, to develop undertakings in lieu of a market investigation reference. Suggestions for markets to review We welcome submissions from business and consumers where they feel that a rail market would benefit from a review. If you wish to suggest a market for review, please first look at our guidance document and then use our suggestions form pdf icon PDF, 47 Kb to provide your views and any supporting information that you might have. We normally assess and identify areas to review on an annual basis, to inform corporate planning for the forthcoming business year. This means your proposal will usually be assessed alongside other proposals in the autumn for review from the following spring. Current public studies 
file_217.txt|Ebixa 5mg/pump actuation 50ml bottle - EU/1/02/219/005 Ebixa 5mg/pump actuation 100ml bottle - EU/1/02/219/006 (Memantine hydrochloride) Lundbeck Limited is recalling specific batches of Ebixa 5mg/pump actuation 50ml and 100ml bottles, please see batch details in the Appendix. This is because of a fault with some of the pump devices which may result in suboptimal dosage of the product. We understand that no immediate or major hazard for the patient is expected however it cannot be excluded that individual patients may potentially experience worsening of their condition from under-dosage. All remaining stock of the affected batches should be quarantined and returned to Alliance Healthcare Limited for credit. The only unaffected stock currently available is the 50ml bottle but Lundbeck Limited is working closely with its suppliers to bring stocks of 100ml bottles to the market as quickly as possible. For enquiries relating to stock return, please call your local Alliance Healthcare Limited Local Service Centre Customer Services Team. For medical information enquiries, please contact Lundbeck Medical Information, tel 01908 638972, email ukinfo@lundbeck.com , fax 01908 638935. Recipients of this drug alert should bring it to the attention of relevant contacts by copy of this letter. Local area teams are asked to forward this to relevant clinics, general practitioners and community pharmacists. Yours faithfully 
file_562.txt|Mainline: freight operating companies An overview of freight operating companies effectiveness at managing health and safety risks. Overview: we are pleased with freight dutyholders' increased adoption of our RM3 model. It has helped us to build up a clearer picture of in-sector performance. We are generally satisfied that the management systems of all companies are performing at acceptable levels, though there are inevitably areas for improvement. Restructuring in some companies resulted in some areas of reduced performance. This is set against increasing freight operations and service growth: up 5.8% on 2012-13 to 22.7 billion net tonnes per kilometres in 2013-14. Evidence: progress on the implementation of the entities in charge of maintenance (ECM) requirements for freight wagons has continued above our expectations and we have completed appropriate surveillance visits. The structure of the ECM process should, in due course, improve freight wagon reliability and safety, as maintainers apply more rigorous maintenance and inspection processes; and performance aligns with best practice. There were eight freight train derailments in 2013-14. The majority of these demonstrated system interface issues between track condition and wagon performance which were previously considered acceptable. The incidents have demonstrated that the assumptions on which the cross-industry standards are based may not be correct and we are working with the industry to determine if changes or different processes may be required, which include managing sector growth, wagon-loading, worker fatigue and safety-critical communication. SPAD numbers have continued to increase over 2013-14, including amongst freight operators. Most freight train SPADs are low-speed and relatively low risk but nevertheless add to the existing accident precursor risk gap. Last updated - 29 August 2014 
file_786.txt|Station and depot access Station and depot access We regulate access to station and light maintenance depots by approving station and depot access agreements. Our role in approving access agreements helps to ensure that the contractual terms for access to a station or depot are fair to the parties concerned, as well as to users of railway services. 
file_445.txt|Committees Committees The board has three standing committees and their terms of reference are included in the board's rules of procedure pdf icon PDF, 165 Kb . Audit and risk committee Remuneration committee Safety regulation committee It also has a Periodic review committee and may appoint other committees to deal with areas of work before recommendations are sent to the board by the committee or the executive for a decision. Audit and risk committee ORR's audit and risk committee has a key role in corporate governance supporting the board and the accounting officer in reviewing the adequacy of ORR's risk, control and governance processes. Non-executive directors: Tracey Barlow (chair) and Mark Fairbairn. Independent member: Melvyn Neate. Also in attendance at all meetings: chief executive, director of corporate services, associate director of finance, a member of the board secretariat team, representatives of the internal audit service provider and the National Audit Office. Remuneration committee ORR's remuneration committee reviews and recommends to the board pay and benefits policy for ORR's senior civil servant staff. It then reviews and makes recommendations on the pay and bonuses for the individual senior civil servants, taking account of their contribution to ORR's overall performance. Non-executive directors: Anna Walker and Tracey Barlow. Safety regulation committee ORR's safety regulation committee helps to develop, maintain, review and update ORR's health and safety regulatory strategy and the overall adequacy of arrangements to meet ORR's statutory duties. It provides guidance and advice on the need for major accident inquiries and reviews the safety inspection and policy formulation programmes. Non-executive directors: Steve Walker (chair), Anna Walker, Mark Fairbairn and Ray O'Toole. Executive directors: Richard Price, Alan Price and Ian Prosser. Other members: Juliet Lazarus, Periodic review committee ORR's periodic review committee oversees and provides guidance on the delivery of the programme of work associated with ORR's periodic review of Network Rail's revenue requirement for the next five-year control period. Non-executive directors: Anna Walker (chair), Ray O'Toole, Steve Walker and Mark Fairbairn. Executive directors: Richard Price, Ian Prosser and Alan Price. Other members: Juliet Lazarus. 
file_659.txt|PR13 consultations Periodic review 2013 (PR13) consultations On this page you will find details of the closed consultations/opportunities to comment on PR13 related matters. Capacity charge baselines for freight, open access passenger and charter operators End of consultation: 23 Jan 2014 ORR and Network Rail joint periodic review 2013 (PR13) consultation on setting capacity charge baselines for control period 5 (CP5) for freight, open access and charter operators. Implementing PR13 - capacity charge End of consultation: 4 Nov 2013 This consultation sets out the specific changes to track access agreements that we proposed to make to implement our capacity charge policy options. The options were consulted on over the course of the summer and are explained in our consultation letter. Implementing the EC4T cost reconciliation End of consultation: 31 Oct 2013 This was a consultation on the principles of and changes to the contractual wording for the cost reconciliation (or "cost wash-up") for charges for electric current for traction (EC4T) as part of the 2013 periodic review (PR13). The aim of the proposed changes to the cost reconciliation formula was to better reflect tariff structure, in particular to allow EC4T delivery charges to be reconciled by electricity supply tariff area (ESTA). Implementing PR13 - charter operators End of consultation: 25 Oct 2013 This consultation set out the specific changes we proposed to make to charter track access agreements to implement our 2013 periodic review (PR13). These reflected the proposed decisions in our draft conclusions on structure of charges and Schedule 8 performance regime for charter operators, issued in September 2013. Capacity charge for freight operators End of consultation: 14 Oct 2013 This consultation set out our proposed conclusions for the capacity charge for freight operators in control period 5 (CP5), with reference to Rail Delivery Group (RDG)'s proposal. End of consultation: 30 Sep 2013 A consultation on our further thinking on the capacity charge, with a refinement of our proposed option. Draft conclusions on structure of charges and Schedule 8 performance regime for charter operators End of consultation: 20 Sep 2013 This consultation set out our draft conclusions in relation to charter operators as part of our 2013 periodic review (PR13), in respect of the structure of charges and performance regime. Implementing PR13 End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 This consultation set out the specific changes we proposed to make to track and station access agreements and Network Rail's network licence to implement our 2013 periodic review (PR13). Draft determination End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 Our draft determination set out our package of overall decisions on the 2013 periodic review (PR13) for consultation. It covered the outputs that Network Rail must deliver, the efficient cost of delivering those outputs, and the access charges the company can levy on train operators for using its network to recover those costs. Consultative letter expanding on the discussion of the capacity charge End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 This letter expanded on the discussion of the capacity charge in chapter 16 of ORR's draft determination of Network Rail's outputs and funding and, in particular, on the proposal put forward by the Rail Freight Operators' Association (RFOA). End of consultation: 9 Aug 2013 This consultation sought views on possible changes in on-rail competition. Contingency planning for PR13 implementation End of consultation: 17 May 2013 This consultation sought the views of Network Rail and train operators on our proposed contingency plan in the event that there is a delay to the formal implementation of the 2013 periodic review (PR13). Electricity for traction charges for control period 5 End of consultation: 8 May 2013 This consultation covered charges for electric current for traction (EC4T), including assumed levels of transmission losses for CP5 and how we proposed to reform the volume wash-up. Freight specific charge for biomass End of consultation: 28 Mar 2013 This consultation set out our proposals for levying a freight specific charge on biomass. A freight specific charge balances payments for freight costs more fairly between businesses, taxpayers and passengers, recognising the wider benefits that rail freight brings against the costs of subsidising rail freight that would not otherwise travel by road. Network Rail's strategic business plan End of consultation: 19 Feb 2013 In January 2013, we sought stakeholders' views on Network Rail's SBP to help inform our review of the SBP ahead of our draft determination in June 2013. Volume incentive End of consultation: 5 Feb 2013 This consultation set out our package of proposals to improve the effectiveness of the volume incentive. These proposals relate to its design and payment rates. The volume incentive is a payment to Network Rail which encourages it to be more responsive to unexpected demand for use of network capacity over and above an agreed level. End of consultation: 28 Jan 2013 Consultation on Schedules 4 and 8 possessions and performance regimes. Network Rail's output framework for 2014-19 End of consultation: 28 Sep 2012 This consultation sought views on what Network Rail would need to deliver in 2014-19 (control period 5). It covered the 'output framework' - the outputs we would set Network Rail, the main indicators we would use to monitor the company and the enablers (measures of Network Rail's capability to deliver). Financial issues for Network Rail in CP5 End of consultation: 26 Sep 2012 This consultation sought views on detailed issues relating to the financial framework that would apply to Network Rail in CP5, as determined through PR13. Variable usage charge and a freight specific charge End of consultation: 10 Aug 2012 This consultation sought views on our proposals relating to the variable usage charge paid by passenger and freight operators and our proposals to introduce a freight specific charge in control period 5. Aligning incentives to improve efficiency End of consultation: 12 Jul 2012 This consultation set out further detailed proposals relating to the alignment of incentives between Network Rail and train operators to improve cost efficiency. Incentives End of consultation: 8 Feb 2012 This document set out for consultation our thinking on what we wished to achieve through PR13 and how we expected to use the incentive tools available to us to do this. End of consultation: 4 Dec 2011 This consultation asked for stakeholder views on the potential for increased on-rail competition. Establishing Network Rail's efficient expenditure End of consultation: 14 Oct 2011 The purpose of this document was to: (a) explain our approach to establishing the level of efficient expenditure for CP5, including the methods we intend to use, the range of studies we intend to undertake and the work Network Rail will do; and (b) seek views on our proposed approach. First PR13 consultation End of consultation: 2 Sep 2011 In May 2011, we issued our first main consultation on the 2013 periodic review (PR13). A periodic review is a programme of work through which decisions are made on what outputs Network Rail should deliver and the levels of access charges payable by train operators and other sources of funding the company receives. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_738.txt|Complaints about rail fares and car park charges Complaints about rail fares and car park charges Guidance on how to complain about rail fares and train station car parks charges when you suspect a breach of competition law. If you are familiar with competition law and would like to know more about the background to the guide, please read our paper on Excessive pricing complaints and franchised passenger services pdf icon PDF, 609 Kb , at the bottom of this page. Questions and answers This set of questions and answers accompanies the guide on Complaints about rail fares and car-park charges – the role of competition law. It provides a little more detail to answer some questions you might have. How do I know if my fare is regulated? We can check this for you. We will look at the journey you are making and the time of day, and check this against the Government's policy on which fares it regulates. If you want to read more about this, the Government's policy is set out in the Strategic Rail Authority's Fares Review Conclusions 2003 . The Strategic Rail Authority has now been abolished but the bodies that took on its responsibilities for fares regulation continue this policy. Please note that the names of some types of fares have changed since this document was published. Please see the National Rail Enquiries website for more details. How much can a regulated fare go up by? Certain standard class rail tickets are regulated by Government: Transport Scotland (for First ScotRail); Welsh Assembly Government (for Arriva Trains Wales); and the Department for Transport (for all other train companies) (for details of which fare types are regulated, please see the Strategic Rail Authority's Fares Review Conclusions 2003 ) As such, the amount by which an individual regulated fare can rise is capped at the Retail Prices Index (RPI) plus a maximum of 6%, within a basket of fares that cannot rise by more than RPI plus 1%. RPI was 4.8% when the limits were set for this year, so the maximum average increase for the basket is 5.8%, and the maximum increase for an individual fare is 10.8%. There are three exceptions to this: Southern, Southeastern and Northern Rail (in the West Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive). Southern fares are regulated at RPI plus 2%, so the maximum average increase for its basket is 6.8% and the maximum increase for an individual fare 11.8%, while Southeastern and Northern Rail fares are regulated at RPI plus 3%, so the maximum average increase for their baskets is 7.8% and the maximum increase for an individual fare 12.8%. I cannot walk for 15 minutes to the station, does that mean the car-park charge could be unfair? We recognise that some people may not have an alternative, but under competition law we need to look at the choices that all of the people who use the train service or station car park could make. Customers as a group may have enough choices to prevent prices from being too high, even if a few people do not. This is because the risk of losing business should stop companies from charging too much. Would a trend towards higher premiums and lower subsidies mean higher prices and more likelihood that those prices are illegally high? As we say in our guide, the Government wants the best-value deal for passengers and taxpayers, so it gets companies to compete for contracts (franchises) to provide services. One of the ways that a train company can increase its income is by raising fares and car-park charges. Another way might be by attracting more people to use its services. Higher fares and car-park charges do not necessarily mean higher profits for the train company though. This is because the train company's profits will be affected by the amount of premium it pays or subsidy it receives. Think of a premium as a cost and a subsidy as income. For prices to be too high under competition law, the income a train company earns would have to be much higher than the train company's costs. If the competition for the franchise has worked well and things go roughly as expected, there will not normally be any prices that are high enough to mean the law has been broken. Further information 
file_79.txt|Forms available for download Consultations and discussions We use public consultations and discussions to take feedback on proposals to changes in our guidance and procedures. You can read relevant documents, find instructions on how you can respond to open consultations, and read our responses to closed consultations and discussion papers. For consultations relating to pension schemes in the public sector, see public service consultations . We follow the government's consultation principles . Consultations run before 2007 can be found on the National Archives website . 
file_155.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Freedom of information (FOI) The Freedom of Information Act provides rights of public access to information held by public authorities. It gives individuals the right (unless an exemption applies) to: be told if the information is held be given that information. 
file_878.txt|Depot access applications and decisions Depot access applications and decisions This section contains details of applications on which we are currently consulting and decisions from the relevant consultation exercise. All approved agreements and subsequently approved amendments are held on our public register . Current applications 
file_939.txt|Investor in people Investor in people The Investor in People (IiP) standard helps organisations to improve performance and realise objectives through the management and development of their people. The Office of Rail Regulation first achieved Investor in People accreditation in March 2001. We were successfully re-accredited in October 2004, February 2007 and February 2012. 
file_718.txt|Enforcement relating to operational performance Enforcement relating to operational performance Our enforcement documentation related to operational performance. Breach of Condition 1 of Network Rail's network licence with regard to Network Rail's operational performance pdf icon PDF, 2,108 Kb 7 July 2014 ORR performance investigation report - Scotland - Network Rail's delivery of its Scotland regulated performance targets 2013-14 pdf icon PDF, 1,199 Kb June 2014 Possible breach of condition 1 of Network Rail's network licence with regard to its operational performance in the London and South East sector pdf icon PDF, 39 Kb 6 June 2014 Investigation into Network Rail's delivery of its regulated performance targets 2013-14 (Long Distance, London and the South East and Regional sectors and Scotland) pdf icon PDF, 52 Kb 25 March 2014 Breach of Condition 1 of Network Rail's network licence with regard to Network Rail's operational performance - ORR letter pdf icon PDF, 1,176 Kb 31 July 2013 Possible breach of condition 1 of Network Rail's network licence with regard to Network Rail's operational performance - Network Rail's letter pdf icon PDF, 1,898 Kb 10 July 2013 Representations received from Virgin Trains Re: ORR's Case to answer letter to Network Rail pdf icon PDF, 55 Kb 28 June 2013 Possible breach of condition 1 of Network Rail's network licence with regard to Network Rail's operational performance pdf icon PDF, 55 Kb 28 June 2013 
file_65.txt|Key points Ensure you have adequate arrangements in place to manage your own conflicts of interest. If you set up a conflicts process for trustees, make sure it includes a conflicts policy, register of interest, declarations and advance planning. Managing your own conflicts of interest You should have adequate arrangements in place for identifying, managing and disclosing your own conflicts of interest. You should make trustees aware of any conflicts of interest that arise when you refer services or products for which you may gain some form of financial or non-financial benefits. Ensure that trustees understand when they’re being given independent advice and when they’re being offered a service or product from a party related to an adviser. You should inform the trustees if you tender for services to a sponsoring employer. Back to top Trustee conflicts of interest Trustee conflicts of interest can arise in DC schemes. They may arise, for example, when agreeing operational costs such as those relating to administration or communication with employers. You should ensure that representation on the trustee board is as balanced as possible. Some DC trust-based schemes, particularly those set up by insurers, appoint a trustee who is an employee of the product provider. If a provider-appointed trustee becomes aware of any business-related decisions which have a bearing on the scheme, ensure they consider the impact this may have on their role as a trustee. Back to top Setting up a conflicts process for trustees Trustees may ask you to help them set up a process to identify and manage any conflicts of those involved in running their defined contribution (DC) scheme. This includes trustees, advisers and service providers. You should ensure the process includes the following controls: conflicts policy setting out the schemes’ approach to dealing with conflicts register of interests for recording all actual or potential conflicts declarations when trustees, advisers and service providers are appointed, ongoing declarations by advisers and service providers as soon as they arise, declarations at the start of trustee and sub-committee meetings advance planning to identify conflicts that may occur in the future. Back to top Detailed guidance Conflicts of interest section of the DC code : provides guidance on managing conflicts of interest in DC schemes. Conflicts of interest regulatory guidance : provides comprehensive guidance on managing conflicts of interest in any type of scheme. 
file_192.txt|Home About us Moving to gov.uk Our website is moving to GOV.UK You can find out more about GOV.UK on their website . We are now in the final stages of the process and have published our information on GOV.UK. You can see this here: gov.uk/mhra Keep updated We will be updating this page as we continue to make progress with the move to GOV.UK. Please visit this page often to find out new developments. You can also follow our Twitter feed hashtag: #mhraongovuk . You’ll also get updates if you subscribe to our news email channel. Email updates Subscribe to our news channel to get updates on our move to GOV.UK: Email address We want to know what you think We welcome your questions and feedback about our move to GOV.UK. Please send us an email to let us know your thoughts at webupdates@mhra.gsi.gov.uk . Moving to GOV.UK news 
file_673.txt|Advice to Ministers Advice to Ministers on the periodic review 2013 (PR13) On 15 March 2012, we wrote separately to the Scottish Ministers and the Secretary of State for Transport with our advice on Network Rail's costs and outputs for control period 5 ('CP5'), which runs from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019. Advice to ministers and requirements for Network Rail's strategic business plan The purpose of our advice was to inform the decisions that the Scottish Ministers and the Secretary of State would be making on what they wanted the railways to achieve in CP5 and the public funds they were prepared to make available to deliver this. These decisions were subsequently set out in the 'high-level output specification' (HLOS) and 'statement of funds available' documents which the Scottish Ministers and Secretary of State each published in summer 2012. Advice to ministers documents and accompanying letters Advice to Scottish Ministers on Network Rail's costs and outputs in CP5 pdf icon PDF, 838 Kb 15/03/2012 
file_823.txt|Info for passengers Info for passengers In this section you will find information for railway passengers such as train fares, train station car park charges; safety-related issues such as station platform gaps and crowding on trains; service disruption; and information about your train journey. As the independent regulator of Britain's railways we are here to ensure our railways operate safely and provide value for money for passengers and taxpayers. Rail passenger compensation and refund rights The main findings of our research to understand passengers' awareness of their compensation and refund rights. Read our rail passenger compensation and refund rights report Open rail Our Open rail section aims to provide clear information about railway funding and how the industry is performing. 
file_81.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Trustees Trustees are vital to providing good quality trust-based pensions and protecting members' benefits. Guidance and resources to help you in your important and challenging role. 
file_694.txt|Annex to the 2012 report Annual efficiency and finance assessment of Network Rail 2012 - Annex B This annex provides information about Network Rail's historic income, expenditure and efficiency. The information is for GB and where possible England & Wales and Scotland separately. More detail about Network Rail and Railtrack's income and expenditure can be found in its regulatory accounts, which are available on Network Rail's website. Chart [B1]: OMR expenditure from 1995-96 to 2011-12 (Great Britain) Tables B1, B2 and B3 provide information about Network Rail's expenditure since 2002-03 and Railtrack's in 2001-02. Table [B1]: Historic expenditure (Great Britain) £m 2011-12 prices 
file_579.txt|Health and safety plans for 2013-14 Our health and safety plans for 2013-14 A summary of our health and safety work plans for 2013-14 and the staff resources it will use. Our key strategic health and safety objective, as set out in our 2013-14 business plan , is: Drive for a safer railway: enforce the law and ensure that the industry delivers continuous improvement in the health and safety of passengers, the workforce and public, by achieving excellence in health and safety culture, management and risk control. Our activities in 2013-13 will deliver this objective will build on our findings from our 2012-13 inspection work and continue to be informed by our 2012 health and safety strategy . In particular we will focus on: reviewing the industry response to safety issues; further extending the use of RM3 across industry sectors; how well the industry is managing safety risks from infrastructure, including: structures, earthworks and track safety, responding to changes in SRM/PIM model trends. ensure duty holders protect the safety of their workers; investigating incidents and accidents; taking enforcement action where required; overseeing the industry delivery of EU Common Safety Methods; delivering our statutory duties, for example, level crossing orders, safety certificates and authorisations and train driving licences; and continuing to promote greater occupational health management across the railway industry. Our health and safety resource, measured as full-time equivalents (FTEs), reduced from 150 FTEs in 2008-09 to 112 in 2013-14. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_978.txt|Ofqual is consulting on proposals to change how GCSE science practicals are assessed. 15 December 2014 — Consultation outcome We are considering removing the 'Regulatory Arrangements for the Qualifications and Credit Framework (QCF)'. 26 November 2014 — Speech Ofqual's Chief Regulator gave a speech on A level reform to Westminster Education Forum. 26 November 2014 — News story A quick guide on where to find our content on GOV.UK and how to access our archived content. 7 November 2014 — Open consultation Proposals for the new religious studies GCSE, AS and A level qualifications due be taught from 2016 Latest 
file_909.txt|Revisions log Revisions log We follow the UK Statistics Authority Code of Practice for Official Statistics. The code requires us to publish a revisions policy which explains the nature and extent of revisions. Since revisions are a normal and inevitable part of statistical publications, our revision policy will allow you to acknowledge and plan for the revisions accordingly. 
file_10.txt|Setting up a pension scheme If you don’t have a pension scheme, or don’t want to use an existing scheme, you’ll need to find a provider that can offer an automatic enrolment scheme. Make sure the scheme meets legal requirements and is good quality. 
file_731.txt|HS1 monitoring and enforcement HS1 monitoring and enforcement This section sets out our approach to regulation of the High Speed 1 (HS1) network, and how we monitor and report on these obligations. It also sets out our enforcement powers. Our regulatory statement pdf icon PDF, 1,709 Kb sets out in more detail what we expect HS1 Limited to do to comply with its obligations. Monitoring and reporting on High Speed 1 We monitor HS1 Limited's operational performance against the performance floor measures, set out in the concession agreement. Read more about monitoring and reporting on HS1 Network regulation / asset management HS1 Limited has a general duty concerning stewardship of the physical HS1 railway infrastructure, which means they must secure the operation, maintenance, renewal, replacement and planning and carrying out of upgrades in accordance with best practice and in a timely, efficient and economical manner, to the greatest extent reasonably practicable having regard to all the circumstances. Read more about network regulation / asset management Enforcement of High Speed 1 Limited We can make enforcement orders, including preventative action for likely future breaches.We can require compliance with an order through seeking an injunction or other relief or remedy. However, we are not able to levy financial penalties. 
file_432.txt|Top tips for ladder and stepladder safety - INDG405 O que esperar aquando da visita de um inspector de saúde e segurança 
file_569.txt|Enforcement activity Enforcement activity A summary of our health and safety enforcement activity in 2013-14, including improvement and prohibition notices and prosecutions. In most cases we secure improvements in health and safety for passengers, the workforce and public through evidence-based advice and encouragement to dutyholders to improve and adapt their risk management. But occasionally we use our formal powers to ensure compliance with the law or deal with immediate risk. Mostly, we use enforcement notices to stop an activity involving serious risk or to rectify serious gaps in risk control. Our enforcement policy statement pdf icon PDF, 228 Kb sets out how we ensure rigour and consistency in our enforcement decisions by using our enforcement management model. Improvement notices in 2013-14 We served a total of 13 improvement notices : six on Network Rail, two on its contractors, two on TfL's contractors, two on heritage operators and one on a passenger transport body. We served three fewer improvement notices on Network Rail in 2013-14 compared to the nine in 2012-13. The reasons for our notices – the first three of which had potentially network-wide implications - included: the rise in track geometry twist faults; the significant number of unearthed/unbounded signalling location cabinets, including some on station platforms; the absence of sufficient vegetation clearance to enable examination of earthworks; worker safety - safety of staff carrying out patrols and inspection, and work in unsupported excavations; and occupational health - underperformance in health risk management from the spraying of paint containing isocyanate. Source: ORR. Key: SMS = safety management system; OH = occupational health; TfL = Transport for London; TOC = train operating company; and FOC = freight operating company. Prohibition notices in 2013-14 We served a total of five prohibition notices , two of which are currently subject to appeal and therefore not included in the following chart. Of the other three: one was served on Network Rail, one on a TfL contractor and one on a heritage operator. Key specific reasons for prohibition notices in 2013-14 failure to implement effective engineering controls to prevent braking failures; occupational health - the spraying of paint containing isocyanate without adequate controls; and the unsafe operation of a heritage railway. Source: ORR. Prosecutions in 2013-14 In England and Wales, we completed a total of six successful prosecutions against eight defendants with a total of £821k fines in 2013-14 - see table. The defendants were: Network Rail in- two cases; Network Rail contractors in five cases; and a train operating company in one case. Prosecutions this year were related to: failure to implement safe systems of work during construction and maintenance work on the railway, or repairs to machinery; poor site-related risk assessment; inadequate sighting line for the user of a level crossing; and failure to manage risks to passengers when a crowded train became stranded. In Scotland, we reported to the Procurator Fiscal following an investigation into track patrolling practice. The Procurator Fiscal prosecuted an individual under section 7 of the Health and Safety at Work Act. The defendant was found guilty and admonished in lieu of a fine – see final entry on table below. England, Wales and Scotland 
file_508.txt|Spending figures Spending figures The files shown below give details of those payments in excess of £25,000 which have been made to our suppliers each month. 
file_796.txt|Licensing railway operators Licensing railway operators Operating railway assets and providing passenger and freight train services are of national importance and we safeguard them in the public interest. Background to operator licensing Guidance explaining the legal framework and procedures we use when we consider licensing applications and the types of licences that are available. Licence obligations Operators of railway assets must normally comply with conditions in their licences and the Statement of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRPs). How to apply Information about applying for a licence or licence exemption , the costs involved and the application forms you will need. Model licences and Statements of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRPs) Licence and SNRPs that we grant are based on these models. Model licence exemptions Licence exemptions in use in the Great Britain rail industry. Current licensing applications 
file_891.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_403.txt|COSHH and vehicle spray painters - key messages Substances hazardous to health in vehicle spray painting include: paints, lacquers and under-seals. Other substances hazardous to health in motor vehicle repair include: fuels, brake fluids and lubricants, including waste oil; fumes and gases from welding and cutting; dusts from abrasive wheels, etc; degreasing fluids, cleaning products, including strong hand cleaners; adhesives and fillers; battery acid. Example: Spray painting with isocyanate-based two-pack top coat Isocyanate can cause asthma. You must reduce exposure to isocyanate as far below the WEL of 0.02 mg/m3 (8 hours) and 0.07 mg/m3 (15 minutes) as reasonably practicable. You normally need to use health surveillance. Isocyanate can also cause dermatitis. Control measures include: enclosed, extracted spray booth marked with its clearance time; air-line respiratory protective equipment; other personal protective equipment; health surveillance for asthma and skin checks. Help in identifying the right controls is on the MVR COSHH essentials web page . Control information for isocyanate appears in: 
file_662.txt|Traction electricity, industry costs and rates Incentives to outperform determination Network grant The presentation slides pdf icon PDF, 403 Kb of the related workshop held on Wednesday 5 September 2012 are available. The workshop consisted of a number of sessions to discuss the issues raised in our consultation. The overall purpose of the day was to recap on the key proposals we set out in the consultation, provide an opportunity for questions and a wider discussion on the proposals and issues raised. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_428.txt|
file_278.txt|Twitter policy Using mhra.gov.uk mhra.gov.uk is maintained for your personal use and viewing. The access and use of mhra.gov.uk featuring these terms and conditions constitutes your acceptance of these terms and conditions. They take effect from the date on which you first use this website. You agree to use this site only for lawful purposes, and in a manner that does not infringe the rights of, or restrict or inhibit the use and enjoyment of this site by any third party. Such restriction or inhibition includes, without limitation, conduct which is unlawful, or which may harass or cause distress or inconvenience to any person, and the transmission of obscene or offensive content or disruption of normal flow of dialogue within this site. Information collected by us on the use of the site is used for internal review, to improve the content of mhra.gov.uk, to customise the content and/or layout of mhra.gov.uk, to notify users about updates to mhra.gov.uk, and to contact users for marketing purposes and is not shared with other organisations for commercial purposes. Linking to mhra.gov.uk We welcome organisations and individuals to create links to our home page and individual pages within our website, without requiring our permission to do so. However, we do request that those linking to our website respect the following conditions: we do not sanction the downloading of information from our site for use on other sites mhra.gov.uk pages must load into the user’s entire window the MHRA reserves the right to move or change its website URLs at any time in order to meet changing business needs and to continually improve its online service. We therefore do not encourage deep linking but recommend linking to section homepages, which are less likely to move or change the MHRA logo must not be copied and used to create links. Intellectual property The names, images and logos identifying mhra.gov.uk are proprietary marks of the MHRA. If you wish to copy or use the MHRA logo, you must get prior approval from the copyright manager by contacting the MHRA branding team through the enquiry point ( info@mhra.gsi.gov.uk ). Tell us how and why you wish to use our logos. Please include your contact details: name, address, telephone number, fax number and e-mail. Disclaimer The mhra.gov.uk website and material relating to Government information, products and services (or to third party information, products and services), is provided 'as is', without any representation or endorsement made and without warranty of any kind whether express or implied, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, security and accuracy. We do not warrant that the functions contained in the material contained in this site will be uninterrupted or error free, that defects will be corrected, or that this site or the server that makes it available are free of viruses or represent the full functionality, accuracy, reliability of the materials. In no event will we be liable for any loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damages whatsoever arising from use or loss of use of, data or profits arising out of or in connection with the use of mhra.gov.uk. Although we may from time to time monitor or review discussions, chat, postings, transmissions, bulletin boards and the like on mhra.gov.uk, we are under no obligation to do so and assume no responsibility or liability arising from the content of any such locations nor for any error, omission, infringement, defamation, obscenity, or inaccuracy contained in any information within such locations on mhra.gov.uk. These terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of England and Wales. Any dispute arising under these terms and conditions shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales. Links to external websites Links contained in mhra.gov.uk will lead to other websites which are not under our control. We are not responsible for the content of any linked site. Listing and linking should not be taken as an endorsement of any kind and we accept no liability in respect of the content. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all of the time and have no control over the availability of the linked pages. Email disclaimer The purpose of this policy is to ensure that people who communicate with the MHRA understand the way in which electronic mail (email) should be used. Its aim is to ensure that email is used effectively for its intended purpose without infringing legal requirements or creating unnecessary business risk. A statement is attached to all outgoing email messages from the Agency setting out this policy. Virus protection We make every effort to check and test material at all stages of production. It is always wise for you to run an anti-virus program on all material downloaded from the Internet. We cannot accept any responsibility for any loss, disruption or damage to your data or your computer system which may occur whilst using material derived from this website. Privacy policy This section explains how the MHRA uses any information you give to us, and the way we protect your privacy. Protecting the privacy and personal data of the visitors to our site is of the utmost importance to us. The Data Protection Act In accordance with the Data Protection Act, we have a legal duty to protect any information we collect from you.  We will only use your information for the purpose as described and we do not pass on your details to any other government department or third party unless you have given us permission to do so.  You have a right to access your personal data and rectify any inaccuracies. Your personal data You may be asked to submit personal information about yourself (e.g. name and e-mail address) in order to receive or use services on our website. Such services include e-mail updates, online forms or online forums. By entering your details in the fields requested, you enable the MHRA and its service providers to provide you with the services you select. Any personal information you provide to us will only be used by us, our agents and service providers, and will not be disclosed unless we are obliged or permitted to by law to do so. If you post or send offensive, inappropriate or objectionable content anywhere on this site, we may use whatever information about you is available to us to stop such behaviour. We will hold your personal information on our systems for as long as you use the service you have requested, and remove it in the event that the purpose has been met or when you no longer wish to continue your subscription. Site usage We use the following cookie on our website: Cookie: Google Analytics Name:__utma, __utmb, __utmz, __qca Purpose: So service is available when you want it and fast, we measure numbers and volumes of visitors The data we gather in this way does not contain any personal information or information about which other sites you have visited. Statement coverage This privacy statement covers the MHRA domain "mhra.gov.uk". It does not cover other websites which may have been accessed via links from our site. Security This site has security measures in place to protect the loss and alteration of information under our control. Changes to the policy If the privacy policy changes in any way, we will place an updated version on this page.  Regularly reviewing the page ensures you are always aware of what information we collect, how we use it and under what circumstances, if any, we will share it with other parties. Contacting us If you have any questions about this privacy statement or the practices of this site, you can contact us through our customer services team ( info@mhra.gsi.gov.uk ). Glossary of terms cookies are files containing information about visitors to a web site (e.g. user name and preferences). This information is provided by the user during the first visit to a web server. The server records this information in a text file and stores this file on the visitor's hard drive. When the visitor accesses the same web site again the server looks for the cookie and configures itself based on the information provided log files are files created by a web or proxy server which contains all of the access information regarding the activity on that server. Social media policy The MHRA social media accounts are managed by the communications team, on behalf of colleagues across the MHRA. 
file_573.txt|The regulator's view Health and safety across the rail sector: the regulator's view This section introduces the summary results of our findings from our inspection work with Network Rail, Britain's mainline infrastructure operator and the passenger train operators who run service on Britain's mainline railway network and the findings of our work with Transport for London's operators, heritage railways and tram operators in 2012-13. Network Rail Our assessment of Network Rail's health and safety performance in 2012-13, including level crossing safety, maintenance of the railway infrastructure, earthworks, structures, safety-by-design, workforce safety and occupational safety. Read more about our assessment of Network Rail Railway operators Our assessment of train and freight operators' health and safety performance on Britain's mainline and minor railways, heritage lines and tramways in 2012-13. 
file_714.txt|Licence enforcement taken Licence enforcement taken by us to date This page contains information about our enforcement action taken against Network Rail and others. It covers enforcement orders, monetary penalties, notices in lieu of enforcement action and breaches where no action was taken. In this section: Under an enforcement order pdf icon PDF, 335 Kb made by ORR in July 2012 Network Rail was required to pay a reasonable sum if the 2013-14PPM target was not achieved. Taking account of issues beyond Network Rail's control in 2013-14, the company will return £53.1m to funders for failure to deliver its agreed obligations in 2013-14. 07/07/2014 Network Rail failed to deliver performance targets for the London and South East (LSE) sector in 2013-14 Network Rail found to have breached condition 1 of its network licence in relation to London and South East sector. Decision letter pdf icon PDF, 2,108 Kb A penalty was not considered appropriate in light of acknowledgment of responsibility and the company's commitment to extra funds to improve the resilience of the rail network in LSE. Plans expected to include projects costing at least £25m must be in place by December 2014. 31/07/2013 Network Rail failed to deliver performance targets for the Long Distance and London and the South East sectors in 2012-13. Network Rail found to have breached Licence Condition 1 of its Network Licence in relation to Long distance and London and South East Sectors in 2012-13. Decision pdf icon PDF, 1,176 Kb made not to impose penalty on Network Rail for long distance performance as existing order in place for 2013-14 nor to impose penalty for London and South East performance in light of recent progress. 23/07/2012 Weaknesses in Network Rail's plan to deliver performance targets for the long distance sector in 2013-14. This order includes a payment of a reasonable sum should Network Rail fail to meet its commitments, set on a sliding scale of £1.5m for each 0.1 of a percentage point that it falls below the target. (under condition 1 of the network licence in 2012) Final order pdf icon PDF, 97 Kb issued under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 requiring Network Rail to deliver the committed target, including further review and development of its plans. Also included in the final order pdf icon PDF, 425 Kb is a payment if Network Rail fails to meet the target, depending on the level of PPM achieved. 19/01/2012 Network Rail's failure to deliver performance targets for the freight sector; Network Rail to set up and facilitate a recovery board comprising of relevant freight operators to agree steps to be taken to remedy the breach within a specified timescale. (under condition 1 of the network licence in 2012) Final order pdf icon PDF, 335 Kb issued under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993, requiring Network Rail to set up and facilitate a recovery board comprising of relevant freight operators to agree the steps to take to remedy the breach, within a specified timescale. 19/01/2012 Weaknesses in Network Rail's plan to deliver performance targets for the long distance sector for 2011-12 and 2012-13; a recovery plan was required. (against Network Rail, under condition 1 of the network licence in 2012) Final order pdf icon PDF, 335 Kb issued under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993, requiring Network Rail to produce and implement a plan setting out the steps it will take in the remainder of 2011‐12 and for 2012‐13 to deliver the outputs. 22/11/2010 Breach of Network Rail's network licence in relation to the introduction of the Integrated Train Planning System. Continuing breach due to failure to meet required timescales for providing information on changes to the timetable. (Conditions 1 and 2 of the network licence, 2010) Press notice 13/05/2008 Continuing breach of Network Rail's network licence in relation to the planning and execution of engineering work requiring possessions. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2008) Press notice . 22/04/2008 Weaknesses in Network Rail's planning and execution of engineering projects requiring possessions. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2008) Final order pdf icon PDF, 137 Kb issued under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993, requiring Network Rail to produce and implement a plan to address weaknesses. 28/02/2008 The likelihood of Network Rail failing to provide infrastructure capability to deliver significant timetable improvements for December 2008. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2008) Provisional order pdf icon PDF, 56 Kb issued under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993, requiring Network Rail to produce and deliver a plan and output in relation to the WCRM project. Reasons for the provisional order pdf icon PDF, 26 Kb . 28/02/2008 Network Rail's decision to take an additional possession at Rugby on 31 December 2007 at late notice, despite the objections of affected operators. (Condition 9 of the network licence, 2008) No enforcement action taken. A conclusions document pdf icon PDF, 25 Kb was published on our website. 06/09/2007 Weaknesses in Network Rail's planning of the Portsmouth resignalling scheme. Network Rail made decisions risking subsequent failure to meet the reasonable requirements of its customers over a significant period of time. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2007) Press notice . 26/10/2006 Network Rail's disposal of land at East Grinstead without ORR consent. (Condition 26 of the network licence, 2006) No enforcement action was taken. A warning letter pdf icon PDF, 1,020 Kb was sent to Network Rail. 12/04/2006 Network Rail's failure to publish accurate information about the capability of the network. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2006) Penalty of 250,000 on Network Rail pdf icon PDF, 601 Kb , issued under section 57C of the Railways Act 1993. 02/03/2006 Network Rail's failure to ensure accurate information on infrastructure capability was available. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2006) Press notice . 08/03/2005 Network Rail's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner (T-12). This related to temporary changes to the national timetable. (Condition 9 of the network licence, 2005) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 496 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 9. 02/09/2004 Network Rail's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner (T-12). This related to temporary changes to the national timetable. (Condition 9 of the network licence, 2004) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 315 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 9. 14/05/2003 The omission of long term expenditure projections from Network Rail's 2003 business plan. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2003) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 108 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 7. 19/11/2002 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner at Bletchley engineering works. (Condition 9 of the network licence, 2003) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 97 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 9. 12/04/2002 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan the renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner for disruptive short notice possessions at Grantham. (Condition 9 of the network licence, 2002) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 92 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 9. 25/03/2002 South West Trains Limited's failure to provide information on its performance to enable Railtrack Plc to comply with condition 9 of the network licence (T-12). (Condition 14 of its passenger train operator licence, 2002) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 100 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 14. 12/12/2001 Railtrack Plc's failure to deliver performance targets in relation to delay minutes. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2001) Penalty of 7.9 million on Railtrack Plc pdf icon PDF, 94 Kb , issued under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993. 28/11/2001 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner for short notice possessions and driver training at Pelaw junction. (Condition 9 of the network licence, 2001) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 47 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 9. 09/11/2001 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner for possessions at: Bloxwich - Hednesford & Church Fenton - Milford junction. (Condition 9 of the network licence, 2001) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 81 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 9. 19/03/2001 Railtrack Plc's failure to secure the maintenance, renewal and replacement of the network in accordance with best practice and in a timely, economic and efficient manner after the Hatfield rail incident. (Condition 7 of the network licence, 2001) Provisional order pdf icon PDF, 192 Kb under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993, requiring Railtrack Plc to restore the normal operation of the network within defined timescales. 02/11/2000 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner for short notice possessions at Wortley Junction. (Condition 8 of the network licence, 2000) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 113 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 8. 21/09/2000 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner for possessions at Camden Junction. (Condition 8 of the Network licence, 2000) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 135 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 8. 23/06/2000 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner for a short notice timetable change at Princes Risborough - Aynho trackworks. (Condition 8 of the network licence, 2000) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 107 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 8. 20/06/2000 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner for a short notice timetable change at Hereford to Abergavenny engineering works. (Condition 8 of the network licence, 2000) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 109 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 8. 04/05/2000 Railtrack Plc's failure to deliver West Coast modernisation with the efficiency of an experienced infrastructure operator and controller.(Condition 7 of the network licence, 2000) Final order pdf icon PDF, 351 Kb under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993. Detailing Railtracks required compliance to condition 7. 24/11/1999 Railtrack Plc's failure to deliver performance targets in relation to delay minutes. (Condition 7 of the network licence,1999) Final order pdf icon PDF, 350 Kb under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993, to ensure that the minutes delay in the total period is at least 12.7 per cent less than the minutes delay in the base year. 29/10/1999 Railtrack Plc's failure to plan renewal, maintenance and enhancement of the network in a timely and efficient manner for the resignalling project in the Dartford Area. (Condition 8 of the network licence) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 198 Kb - decision not to make an Order in relation to contravention of Condition 8. 08/09/1999 National Rail Enquiry Service's (NRES) non-compliance with answering targets pending investigation of the achievability of the targets. (Condition 7 of passenger train operator licences, 1999) No enforcement action taken. We reminded NRES it must plan for capacity as it was already subject to an enforcement order, imposed on 4 December 1998. 04/12/1998 NRES' failure to meet telephone call answering targets. (Condition 7 of all franchised passenger train operator licences in 1998) Final order on NRES under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993, which remained in place until performance was consistently meeting the target. 16/07/1998 Railtrack's 1998 Network Management Statement published the commitments it had given detailing where it needed to take action to secure compliance with its obligations under Condition 7. (Condition 7 of network licence, 1998) No enforcement action taken but an ORR statement pdf icon PDF, 439 Kb was published requiring Railtrack to set targets for activities. 23/10/1997 Failure of all franchised passenger train operators to ensure that calls are answered with expected answering targets for NRES. (Condition 7 of passenger train operator licences, 1997) Penalties totalling 350,000 (250,000 in September and 100,000 in October) on all franchised passenger train operators, issued under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993. 15/08/1997 NRES' failure to meet telephone call answering targets. (Condition 7 of all franchised passenger train operator licences in 1997) Final order on NRES, under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 as too many calls were still going unanswered. 12/03/1997 LTS Rail Limited's failure to comply with the Ticketing and Settlement Agreement and Travelcard agreement. (Condition 7 of its passenger train operator licence, 1997) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 250 Kb - decision not to make a further Order in relation to contravention of Condition 7. Northern Spirit Limited's (Regional North East Railways) failure to maintain station ticket office opening hours (Condition 7 of its passenger train operator licence, 1997). 26/06/1996 West Anglia Great Northern Railway Limited's failure to comply with the Telephone Enquiry Bureau scheme. (Condition 7 of its passenger train operator licence, 1996) Notice under section 55 of the Railways Act 1993 pdf icon PDF, 88 Kb - decision not to make a further Order in relation to contravention of Condition 7. Last updated - 8 July 2014 
file_231.txt|All herbal safety warnings and alerts 7 May 2014 The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is advising consumers not to use the following traditional Chinese medicines as there are concerns about possible side effects. These products are not authorised for sale in the UK and have not been found on the UK marketplace, but they could be available on the internet. Hairegeberator is promoted for the treatment of hair loss. According to the product packaging, the product is manufactured by Hang Cheong Lung Pharmaceutical Limited. The Hong Kong Department of Health found that samples of Hairegenerator exceeded the permissible limit for mercury. Ingestion of excessive amounts of heavy metals such as mercury poses serious health risks because the metals may accumulate in vital organs of the body. Children are most susceptible to the toxic effects. The toxic effects of mercury include irritability, tremors, memory loss, insomnia, concentration problems, and kidney and brain damage. Li Long Mei Guo Mo Bang is promoted for sexual enhancement. The Singapore Health Sciences Authority warned consumers not to use Li Long Mei Guo Mo Bang after it was found to contain sildenafil, a prescription drug ingredient that was not declared on the product label. Sildenafil is a prescription only drug used to treat erectile dysfunction and should only be taken under the supervision of a healthcare professional. Sildenafil can cause potentially life-threatening high blood pressure. Individuals with heart problems are at increased risk of cardiovascular side-effects such as heart attack, stroke, chest pain and abnormal heart beat. Other side effects include headache, indigestion, dizziness and abnormal vision. Ginseng Tu chong Wan Lin Heong is promoted for treatment of arthritis and joint pain. The Singapore Health Sciences Authority warned consumers not to use Ginseng Tu chong Wan Lin Heong after it was found to contain dexamethasone, a drug ingredient that was not declared on the product label. Dexamethasone is a steroidal prescription only drug used to treat inflammatory conditions such as arthritis and allergic reactions. It should only be taken under the supervision of a healthcare professional. Side effects associated with dexamethasone include irregular heartbeat, increased blood pressure, stomach ulcer, blood disorders, skin, muscle and bone damage, and nervous system disorders. Consult with your healthcare professional prior to stopping use, as sudden discontinuation of dexamethasone may cause symptoms of withdrawal. Page last modified: 		 		07 May 2014 
file_358.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_953.txt|Events Events ONR attends and hosts meetings and conferences on a regular basis, with a wide range of stakeholder groups, including the nuclear industry, environmental campaign groups, members of the public and professional groups. A list of the meetings we have attended, together with any presentation slides and associated materials, is included below. Additionally, ONR site inspectors routinely attend community meetings, which are variously referred to as local liaison committees (LLC), site stakeholder groups (SSG) meetings or local community liaison councils (LCLCs). You can find the reports that we submit to these meetings on our quarterly site reports page . If you would like more information on future ONR events, visit our news centre . Archive 24 April 2014 NGO Forum The seventh of ONR's regular, six monthly forums with members of environmental campaign groups (referred to as NGOs, or non-governmental organisations). 5 November 2013 NGO Forum The sixth of ONR's regular, six monthly forums with members of environmental campaign groups (referred to as NGOs, or non-governmental organisations). 1 May 2013 NGO Forum The fifth of ONR's regular, six monthly forums with members of environmental campaign groups (referred to as NGOs, or non-governmental organisations). 6 November 2012 NGO Forum The fourth of ONR's regular, six monthly forums with members of environmental campaign groups (referred to as NGOs, or non-governmental organisations). 23 May 2012 NGO Forum The third of ONR's regular, six monthly forums with members of environmental campaign groups (referred to as NGOs, or non-governmental organisations). 15 February 2012 ONR community engagement forum in Leiston (near Sizewell) As part of efforts to improve its engagement with communities living near nuclear facilities, ONR conducted an evening engagement event with communities living near the decommissioning (Sizewell A), operating (Sizewell B) and proposed (Sizewell C) nuclear power plants. Fukushima regional briefing in Bangor The second of ONR's series of regional briefings on the HM Chief Inspectors report. 12 December 2011 Fukushima regional briefing in Bristol ONR is conducting a series of regional briefings for members of the public on the report from HM Chief Inspector of Nuclear Installations on the Fukushima accident and implications for the UK nuclear industry. 30 November 2011 Presentation to the Civil Engineering Contractors Association (CECA) forum Deputy Chief Inspectors presentation. 17 November 2011 NGO Forum The second of ONR's regular, six monthly forums with members of environmental campaign groups (referred to as NGOs, or non-governmental organisations). 5 July 2011 NGO Forum This is the first of ONR's regular, six monthly forums with members of environmental campaign groups (referred to as NGOs, or non-governmental organisations). 
file_841.txt|This statement sets out our approach to our approval and monitoring role of train operator's disabled people’s protection policies. 17 Jul 2014 This statement is intended to give clarity to operators on the approach we intend to take to our role and the process for implementing complaints handling procedures. 17 Jul 2014 Regulatory statement about the characterisation of the Crossrail Supplementary Access Charge under the Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 28 Feb 2014 Regulators welcome Government cross-sectoral study The UK's economic regulators welcomed the Government's study to identify ways in which cross-sectoral approaches and collaboration across regulators could improve outcomes for consumers. It aims to build on UK's strong track record of independent regulation, which has delivered better value, more choice and improved service quality for consumers over the last three decades. 5 Dec 2013 Our long-term regulatory statement discusses how our regulation may develop in line with the changing shape of the industry, and identifies priorities for the growth and sustainability of Britain’s railways. 15 Jul 2013 The conclusions reached between DfT and ORR following our joint consultation on regulating passenger franchisees in England and Wales. 18 Mar 2013 Our enforcement policy as economic regulator for the main railway in Great Britain and contains the penalties statement required by section 57B of the Railways Act 1993 (the Act). 31 Jul 2012 Regulatory statement on licence obligations relating to passenger information. 7 Mar 2012 
file_117.txt|Section 89 reports We are committed to being open and transparent in our activities, which may include publishing reports under section 89 of the Pensions Act 2004 on our considerations in particular cases. All documents can be produced in an alternative format on request - in Braille, large print or on audiotape. We can also produce them in other languages. You can reproduce the text in any of these publications, as long as you quote the name and title of the publication. And you can reproduce the text on this website, as long as you identify our website as the source of the material. Some of our documents are published in Adobe Acrobat's Portable Document Format (PDF). Adobe Reader allows you to view, navigate, and print PDF (Portable Document Format) files across all major computing platforms, this can be downloaded from the Adobe website. 
file_857.txt|PR08 notices Periodic review 2008 (PR08) notices This page sets out the legal notices relating to the implementation of the 2008 periodic review (PR08). 
file_290.txt|Copyright Copyright relating to online resources The information on this website is owned by the Crown and subject to Crown copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. You may re-use the Crown material featured on this website free of charge in any format or medium, under the terms of the Open Government Licence . The preferred acknowledgement is ‘Contains public sector information published by the Health and Safety Executive and licensed under the Open Government Licence’. Some images, illustrations and multimedia material on this website may not be owned by the Crown and cannot be reproduced without permission from the copyright owner. In order for us to advise whether the material that you are interested in can be used, please send an email with a link for the relevant webpage, and details of which image, illustration or multimedia material you would like to use, to our Copyright account: copyright@hse.gsi.gov.uk . Please note that we do not supply high-resolution versions of the images on our website. The HSE logo cannot be reproduced without the prior written permission of the Health and Safety Executive. Any enquiries regarding the use of Crown material should be sent to psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk . Copyright relating to print and multimedia products The information in physical products published by HSE is owned by the Crown and subject to Crown copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. You may use re-use the Crown material in these products free of charge in any format or medium, under the terms of the Open Government Licence . The preferred acknowledgement is ‘Contains public sector information published by the Health and Safety Executive and licensed under the Open Government Licence’. The ‘Health and Safety Law: what you need to know’ suite of posters are excluded from the Open Government Licence arrangements. Some images, illustrations and other material contained in our print and multimedia products may not be owned by the Crown and cannot be reproduced without permission from the copyright owner. In order for us to advise whether the material that you are interested in can be used, please send an email with a reference to the specific publication or product, and details of which image or illustration you would like to re-use, to our Copyright account: copyright@hse.gsi.gov.uk . Please note that we do not supply copies, in high-resolution or any other formats, of the images in our printed products. The HSE logo cannot be reproduced without the prior written permission of the Health and Safety Executive. Any enquiries regarding the use of Crown material should be sent to psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk . See also 
file_849.txt|Specialist Compliant Coatings Limited I/DM/14/01/14/SCC1 The notice was served due to a 'Leakage' of paint mists outside enclosures at Morden Depot: High levels of isocyanates from paint spraying (some exceeding Workplace Exposure limits) were found outside and adjacent to paint spraying enclosures being used for refurbishing LUL trains. The extraction equipment   used by the paint spraying contractor was not adequately removing isocyanates, and appeared to be discharging them into general working areas. Isocyanates are respiratory sensitisers. 15 Jan 2014 
file_331.txt|GOV.UK About HSE It is 40 years since the Health and Safety at Work Act received Royal Assent, providing a new regulatory framework for work place health and safety in Great Britain. This has helped make Britain one of the safest places in the world to work, saving thousands of lives, preventing many more injuries at work and reducing the economic and social costs of health and safety failures. 
file_30.txt|Key points You must keep records about your staff and your pension scheme. Ensure that you have all your records ready for automatic enrolment and have the right processes in place to manage any changes. Make sure you provide the right information to your pension schemes. Which records to keep By law, there are two different types of records that an employer must keep: Records about staff Records about the pension scheme You must keep these records for a minimum of six years (except for records of opt-outs which you must keep for four years). You can find a list of the records that must be kept in our detailed guidance on keeping records below. Back to top Keeping records You must retain any opt-in, joining or opt-out notices you receive from your staff as this is proof that they have exercised these rights. You must keep these records in a legible format so that the regulator can understand them, if we ask to see them. Employers staging on or after 1 January 2014 will have a new declaration of compliance (registration) deadline due to a change in the law. If you outsource your business or pensions administration to a third party, it’s still your legal responsibility to make sure they follow the same rules as above. The records must be provided to us in a timely manner, if we ask to see them. 
file_353.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_39.txt|Back to top Retirement options If you have a defined contribution (DC) pension scheme, the trustee (or scheme manager) or pension provider must tell your scheme members they can buy an annuity (which pays them an income for the rest of their life) from the insurance company of their choice and they don’t have to take the one offered by the scheme. This is called the ‘open-market option’ (OMO) and means your staff can make sure they get the best deal. You may choose to provide your scheme members with additional support to help them make important decisions about their retirement (even though you’re not legally obliged to). For example, some organisations arrange group presentations to tell scheme members about their retirement options. This could be run by an adviser, the pension provider, trustees, or an in-house human resources (HR) or pensions manager. However, any presentation should focus on providing only factual information. For further information you can recommend: 
file_538.txt|Duty of cooperation/dispute resolution Duty of cooperation/dispute resolution This page contains guidance on how the rail industry can resolve disputes if lack of cooperation between transport operators is perceived to endanger safety. The Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS) Regulation 22 requires transport operators to cooperate with one another. There are industry processes to resolve disputes where lack of cooperation is perceived to endanger safety ( RSSB guide ). If these industry processes fail to resolve issues, transport operators have the option (as a last resort) of escalating disputes to ORR. The processes contained in Escalating disputes to ORR under ROGS Duty of cooperation pdf icon PDF, 1,797 Kb describe how we will handle these, and the template that we require parties involved in a dispute to complete and send to us. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_930.txt|Regulating a changing network: the role of ORR. 5 Dec 2011 The presentation slides of a speech given by Anna Walker, ORR Chair, at the IOSH Rail Industry Conference. 22 Nov 2011 The presentation slides of a speech given by Anna Walker, ORR Chair, at the Value for Money Conference. 17 Nov 2011 The presentation slides of a speech given by Anna Walker, ORR Chair, at the ACoRP Conference. 2 Nov 2011 The presentation slides of a speech given by Anna Walker, ORR Chair, at the Railway Industry Association, Annual General meeting. 28 Oct 2011 
file_989.txt|Developing new GCSE, A level and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 Consultations > Developing new GCSE, A level and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 This consultation is about developing new GCSE, A level and AS qualifications for first teaching in September 2016. It covers these subjects: GCSEs Art and design, Computer science, Dance, Music and Physical education A level and AS qualifications Ancient languages, Dance, Geography, Mathematics, Further mathematics, Modern foreign languages, Music and Physical education We are looking at running consultation sessions around the country on specific subjects in order to allow for detailed discussion on the proposals which directly impact on a specific subject. We are running these on a demand basis and would ask people to identify their preferences by completing this short questionnaire which can be found here . Read the consultation You can download a copy of the consultation document in PDF format [PDF, 756KB] There is a version in Word format [DOCX, 148KB] that you can fill in and send back to us. You can also browse the online version from the left hand navigation bar. Alongside this consultation, DfE is consulting on the content that will be used for each of these subjects. The consultation can be found here . How to respond If you have an interest in GCSE, A level and AS qualifications we hope you will respond to this consultation. You do not have to respond to all questions; you might prefer to answer those related to a specific subject only. We acknowledge that we are launching this at the end of term. The closing date for responses is 22nd September 2014 enabling schools to finalise their feedback at the start of the new school year. Please respond to this consultation in one of three ways: Complete the online response at http://surveys.ofqual.gov.uk/s3/developing-new-qualifications-for-first-teaching-in-2016-july-2014 Email your response to consultations@ofqual.gov.uk – please include 'GCSE and A level subject requirements' in the subject line of the email and make clear who you are and in what capacity you are responding. Post your response to: GCSE, A level and AS Qualification Subject Requirements, Ofqual, Spring Place, Coventry Business Park, Herald Avenue, Coventry, CV5 6UB. The closing date for responses to the consultation is Monday, 22nd September 2014. Contents: 
file_384.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_623.txt|Infrastructure safety Infrastructure safety Railway infrastructure consists primarily of the tracks, formation and supporting structures (bridges, viaducts and tunnels), stations and electrified lines. Signalling and train control equipment also form part of the infrastructure. Under health and safety law, we have powers of investigation and enforcement to ensure that railway operators are controlling risks posed by rolling stock operations and infrastructure, so far as is reasonably practicable. In this section: 
file_470.txt|Minor and heritage railways Minor and heritage railways Minor railways and heritage railways are 'lines of local interest', museum railways or tourist railways that have retained or assumed the character and appearance and operating practices of railways of former times. Several lines that operate in isolation provide genuine transport facilities, providing community links. Most lines constitute tourist or educational attractions in their own right. The Heritage Railway Association represents the majority of minor railways. Much of the rolling stock and other equipment used on these systems is original and is of historic value in its own right. Many systems aim to replicate both the look and operating practices of historic former railways companies. How do we regulate minor or heritage railways? We provide guidance to minor rail operators pdf icon PDF, 749 Kb with advice and assistance on safety requirements. We also impose certain constraints on minor railways in reaction to speed and weight limits. Minor railways are not normally permitted to operate above a speed limit of 25mph. We have developed guidelines for best practice in steam locomotive boiler construction, operation and maintenance pdf icon PDF, 2,321 Kb . We will be working with the industry to review the regulatory regime for minor and heritage railways ensuring that it continues to be proportionate to the potential risks on those systems. Key issues The following are key areas of interest to minor and heritage rail: We concentrate efforts in high risk areas. We normally only inspect minor railways in response to incidents, serious complaints or if there is a statutory requirement. Areas considered to be at a higher risk are level crossings and steam locomotive maintenance. Our inspectors are working with the industry in these areas to improve existing standards. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_633.txt|ERTMS The European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) The European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) is a European train control system that will be introduced onto the GB rail network over the next 30 years. ERTMS is a traffic management system which is specified by Europe to provide a unified signalling and control system throughout the European area. A key component of ERTMS is the on-board signalling equipment (referred to as the European Train Control System or ETCS). So as to ensure compatibility between differing suppliers, the Command , Control and Signalling Technical Specification for Interoperability (TSI) has specified the key interfaces needed between equipment on the train and equipment fitted to the infrastructure. The implementation plan for ERTMS within Great Britain will take over 30 years, targeting equipment that is life expired. Accelerating the plan would incur significant additional cost which is unlikely to be acceptable in most places. Industry activity The railway industry is now actively engaged in progressing ERTMS projects in line with the implementation plan. Network Rail has been given the role of coordinating the whole industry towards achieving the plan which must also be dovetailed into the National Operating Strategy that transfer control of the railway into a small number of operating centres and introduces traffic management, which is also part of the ERTMS concept. ORR activity We have two formal roles associated with ERTMS. Firstly we evaluated the business case produced by Network Rail that demonstrated that there was a positive benefit to the rail industry by migrating the network to ERTMS. This assessment excluded any safety or capacity benefit but focussed purely on the cost of fitting and maintaining the system. The second formal role for us is to act as the National Safety Authority (NSA) as required by the TSI. The NSA must authorise any constituent components specified in the TSIs. Authorisation must take place before equipment can be brought into service. In addition to these formal roles, we are keen to encourage the industry to explore opportunities that ERTMS might offer to improve safety (staff protection and level crossings are two examples) and performance benefits (improved capacity and greater flexibility are two examples). Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_348.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_912.txt|Contact us Contact rail statistics If you have any questions, comments or suggestions, please contact the rail statistics team at rstats@orr.gsi.gov.uk When you make a request for information to the team please be specific about the material you need if the information is within a range of dates or a specific timescale please include this in your request. We will aim to respond to your request within 10 working days of ORR being clear of your requirements Requests for more information Please note that if you are currently undertaking academic research that includes the use of National Rail Trends data and have specific requirements that cannot be met by existing data available then please contact the following: If your enquiry is about: passenger journeys, kilometres and revenue, please contact the train operating companies directly. Otherwise, email enquiry@atoc.org ; public performance measure, freight moved or infrastructure please visit the Network Rail website ; capacity statistics, average age of rolling stock, Government support to the rail industry or payments and penalties to operators please email rail.stats@dft.gsi.gov.uk ; freight lifted, please contact the freight operators directly; and the National Passenger Survey, please e-mail info@passengerfocus.org.uk . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_110.txt|Joining the trustee register Independent trustee register The Pensions Regulator is required by statute to compile and maintain a register of trustees who fulfil certain legislative conditions. The regulator meets this requirement through the creation and maintenance of its trustee register. 
file_924.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_687.txt|CP4 enhancement projects Delivery of CP4 enhancement projects and funds Our enhancement projects team is monitoring the portfolio of enhancement projects and funds that Network Rail has been funded to deliver in CP4. These include: Major schemes such as: National Stations Improvement Programme (NSIP) plus over 80 other schemes to enhance capacity or line speeds across the country. The list of enhancement schemes funded by the periodic review is shown in Network Rail's enhancements delivery plan which is published on its website and updated every quarter. Programme and project reviews We commissioned Nichols pdf icon PDF, 369 Kb to review how Network Rail measures and improves its own capability in project, programme and portfolio management. Nichols gave an assessment of potential methods of measuring and targeting improvements in the most critical parts of its business. The report recommends the use of the Cabinet Office's P3M3 measure, which we will use as be an enabler throughout Control Period 5 (2014-2019). 16 Dec 2013. Network Rail has developed infrastructure and electrification designs for the Edinburgh to Glasgow Improvements Programme and implemented Haymarket North Lines Electrification (an early EGIP project), in Control Period 4 (2009-2014). We commissioned Halcrow pdf icon PDF, 820 Kb to check whether Network Rail costs have been efficient for these elements of EGIP. We commissioned Halcrow pdf icon PDF, 182 Kb to check whether Network Rail is making sufficient progress to commission ERTMS on Great Western mainline and East Coast mainline (south), due to be commissioned between 2019 and 2020. We commissioned Nichols to review the Strategic Freight Network fund pdf icon PDF, 213 Kb , a £250m fund that aims to enhance the capability of the mainline freight network. We wanted assurance that the schemes being delivered by Network Rail are on target to be delivered   within the agreed timescales and have effective governance arrangements in place. We commissioned Nichols pdf icon PDF, 371 Kb to review how well Network Rail were developing and integrating the projects in the north west of England. These projects include both electrification of existing non-electrified routes, together with capacity   and capability improvements. Once completed these projects will enable new train services to run and improved timetables are planned to be introduced between December 2013 and 2016. This review looked at whether the overall programme is set up to succeed and whether it will deliver an efficient outcome. Network Rail commissioned Halcrow pdf icon PDF, 451 Kb to review its ongoing improvements in how it manages 'business change' to ensure that risks to NR and 3rd parties are adequately managed. We asked Nichols pdf icon PDF, 131 Kb to check that the construction phase for phase 1 of the Northwest Electrification Programme was deliverable within the committed milestones and efficiently costed. We also asked Nichols pdf icon PDF, 104 Kb to check that the early design and development costs that has recently been competed for the Northwest programme was efficiently incurred. We have used the Reporter to carry out reviews of some of the major projects and programmes and have published the executive summary of their reports. 
file_664.txt|Incentives workshop Incentives workshop This page sets out the agenda and the presentation slides of the periodic review 2013 (PR13) incentives workshop which took place on Monday 9 January 2012. The overall purpose of the day was to recap on the key proposals set out in our consultation on incentives , published on 14 December 2011, and to provide an opportunity to discuss the proposals and issues raised. We also discussed the disaggregation of Network Rail's price control/regulatory framework and financial information by route – an important issue for PR13 – having a bearing on how incentives are established and have effect. The incentives consultation covered the following topics: PR13 objectives and outcomes; Aligning incentives on efficiency, including efficiency sharing between operators and Network Rail; Capacity utilisation incentives; Schedules 4 and 8, possessions and performance regimes; and Other aspects of the incentives framework, including incentivising innovation. 
file_764.txt|Agreed amendments to contracts (Section 22) Agreed amendments to contracts (Section 22) This page contains all ORR decisions made in the last six months relating to agreed amendments to current Track Access Contracts. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . 2014 decisions 
file_750.txt|How to apply for track access How to apply for track access This section contains all the links you need to enable you to apply for track access, or for a contract for connection to the network, whether for passenger or freight. It also includes links to help you to apply for options on access and details of applicable exemptions. There are further links to our comprehensive Criteria and Procedures document as well as detailed model contracts for all aspects of access operations which we strongly recommend are followed for all contracts. How to apply for: 
file_193.txt|Home Safety information Information for healthcare professional specialties Information for healthcare professional specialties As part of our continuing drive to support healthcare professionals, we have set up this section comprising information targeted for different healthcare professional specialities to assist them in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. Anaesthetics All clinical staff involved in anaesthesia use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist anaesthetics care practitioners in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Care home staff Care home staff use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist care home staff in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Critical care If you work in critical care this page has been specifically designed for you. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist you in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices used everyday in critical care. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this General practice Those involved in general practice use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Haematology and oncology This section is designed specifically for those staff working in haematology and oncology especially those staff working in apheresis units. The information provided on these pages includes links to guidance, safety alerts, and links to educational material to assist practitioners with the safe use and management of the wide range of medicines and medical devices used in haematology and oncology. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Obstetrics and gynaecology Obstetrics and gynaecology practitioners use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices and, this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist obstetrics and gynaecology practitioners in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Orthopaedics Orthopaedics practitioners use and manage a very wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist orthopaedics practitioners in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Pathology Pathology practitioners use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist pathology practitioners in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Physiotherapy and occupational therapy Physiotherapists and occupational therapists use and manage a wide range of medical devices and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts, and links to educational material to assist staff in the safe use and management of the wide range of medicines and medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Renal The information provided on these pages includes links to guidance, safety alerts, and links to educational material to assist practitioners with the safe use and management of the wide range of medical devices used in renal medicine. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Urology Welcome to the section of the MHRA website designed specifically for urology staff.  It includes guidance, safety alerts, and links to educational material to assist staff in the safe use and management of the wide range of medicines and medical devices used in urology. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Cardiology Cardiology practitioners use and manage a very wide range of medicines and medical devices and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist cardiology practitioners in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. Go to the page on cardiology Cosmetic surgery Cosmetic surgeons use and manage a wide range of medical devices and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts, and links to educational material to assist staff in the safe use and management of the wide range of medicines and medical devices. Go to page on cosmetic surgery Dentistry Dentists, dental nurses, dental hygienists and dental therapists manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to help all members of the dental team manage and use medicines and medical devices safely. Go to the page on dentistry General surgery General surgical staff use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist those working in general surgery in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. Go to the page on general surgery Infection prevention This section of the MHRA website has been designed specifically for infection prevention practitioners and those with an interest in this important area of clinical practice. It includes guidance, safety alerts, and links to educational material to assist staff in the safe use and management of the wide range of medicines and medical devices. Go to the page on infection prevention Ophthalmology Ophthalmology practitioners use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist ophthalmology practitioners in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. Go to the page on ophthalmology Paediatrics Paediatricians use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices. This page has been specifically adapted to the needs of paediatricians. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist paediatricians in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. Go to the page on paediatrics Pharmacy Pharmacists use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices. This page has been specifically adapted to the needs of pharmacists. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist pharmacists in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. Go to the pharmacy page Radiology Radiology practitioners use and manage a very wide range of medicines and medical devices, and this page has been specifically adapted to their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist radiology practitioners in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. Go to the radiology page Theatre practitioners Theatre practitioners use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices. This page has been specifically adapted to the needs of theatre practitioners. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist theatre practitioners in the safe use and management of medicines and medical devices. Go to the page for theatre practitioners Vascular and cardiac surgery Clinical staff involved in caring for vascular and cardiac surgical patients use and manage a wide range of medicines and medical devices. This page has been specifically adapted to meet their needs. It includes guidance, safety alerts and links to educational material to assist those working in vascular and cardiac surgery, in the safe use and management of both medicines and medical devices. 
file_276.txt|change of authorised representative change in status of an IVD e.g. change from ‘performance evaluation’ to ‘new’ or ‘other'. You must complete the appropriate registration form(s) RG2 and/or RG3 and submit it to the MHRA. Please refer to the section ‘Supporting documentation required to complete the processing of notifications/registrations’ for a list of additional documentation required to completed the processing of registrations submitted to us. There is no need to inform the MHRA of additional products being placed on the UK market if you have already registered under a generic code within which the new products falls. However, any products falling outside of the generic codes registered i.e. an in vitro diagnostic and/or medical device(s) should be notified to the UK competent authority. <Back to top> Changes of phone numbers, contact person or removal of devices You do not need to pay for these changes, but you should provide these types of changes in writing (email us on: mb-mda-era@mhra.gsi.gov.uk ) providing your reference number, which appears at the top of your letter of registration, with your full name and address. All other changes should be submitted using the appropriate registration forms and the registration fee is applicable <Back to top> Registration costs Registration costs are £70 per RG2 or RG3 form; please note multiple devices can be registered on one form, by just copying additional page(s) when you run out of room. <Back to top> Fees There is no fee per item placed on the form - it is payable per form submitted. You can also place multiple devices on the registration form RG2/3, by just copying additional page(s) when you run out of room. There is no the fee payable for new and subsequent changes to the registered details <Back to top> Contacting us by phone We do not accept changes to details by phone. All changes should be submitted in writing (email us on: mb-mda-era@mhra.gsi.gov.uk ) by using the appropriate registration form RG2 or RG3 with the exception of changes covered under point 6. <Back to top> Renewal You do not need to re-register every year. We only require an update of your registration when there has been a change to your registration details or if we require confirmation that you wish to remain registered (in which case we will write to you). Device codes for parts 7, 8 and 9 of the RG2 form You will find the appropriate codes in the guidance section of the RG2 form (73Kb). If you are still unable to assign a generic device code, you should provide details of the device and its intended use in sections 7a, 8a and/or 9a. It is also helpful if a copy of the instructions for use and any pictures or diagrams of the device are provided to assist us in identifying the correct code. <Back to top> Additional documentation regarding the devices placed on the market We only require the RG2 and/or RG3 form, and the relevant letters in support of your notification if you are an authorised representative. If we have difficultly assigning the appropriate device code we may ask for further information. <Back to top> Placing devices on the market once registration forms are submitted Once you have submitted a valid notification under Regulations 19/44 and 53 of the Medical Devices Regulations 2002, you are free to place the medical and/or in vitro diagnostic medical device on the UK/EU market as long as all other requirements of the Regulations have been met. Note that our letter acknowledging that the registration has been made is just our confirmation of registration and is not a legal requirement. You should also provide the registration number at the top of your registration letter when communicating with us, as this allows us to trace your information more readily. <Back to top> Appointment of authorised representative for EFTA members Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland There is no requirement for companies within these countries to appoint an authorised representative they should submit a notification to their relevant competent authority within their own jurisdiction borders. Registration with the UK competent authority would not be appropriate. In addition under a treaty signed with the EU, Turkey may also now accept notifications under the Medical Devices and In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Directive and so no longer needs to designate an authorised representative to place these devices on the EU market. <Back to top> MHRA logo on your packing and labelling of our products Our logo is copyrighted and should not be used on any packaging, labelling or promotional material. You should also note in accepting a registration, the competent authority does not examine each individual notification and therefore cannot and does not necessarily endorse these determinations. Neither does the letter confirming registration represent any form of accreditation or approval by the UK competent authority or a certification/certificate. Our letter is just confirmation that the registration process is at an end. You may freely place your allocated registration number on your packaging/labelling or provide a copy of your registration letter to your own customers as proof you are registered with the MHRA. However, this is purely your decision and should not be seen as a regulatory requirement of operating in the devices industry. <Back to top> Authorised representatives within the EU The amendment Directive 2007/47/EC to the Medical Devices Directive 93/42/EEC stipulates that ‘where a manufacturer who places a device on the market under his own name does not have a registered place of business in a Member State, he shall designate a single authorised representative in the European Union’. Recital 14 of Directive 2007/47/EC clarifies: ‘to introduce the obligation for such manufacturers to designate an authorised representative for a device. This designation should be effective at least for all devices of the same model.’ Further information is provided in the European Commission’s guidance document called ‘MEDDEV 2.5/10 January 2012 Guideline for authorised representatives’. It is not the intention that this provision restricts a manufacturer to a single authorised representative for the whole range of his products. The manufacturer may have more than one authorised representative as long as each device (type/model) is linked to only one authorised representative. Therefore, under the amended legislation quoted above only one authorised representative can be designated within the EU for each product type. <Back to top> Contact the MHRA If you still have queries regarding the registration process please contact us under the relevant alphabetical split for your company name, which is as follows: A – D = Jasu Patel 020 3080 7195 E - M = Barbara Clarke 020 3080 7318 M - Z = Angela Bartley 020 3080 7149 or send your enquiry via email to: mb-mda-era@mhra.gsi.gov.uk 
file_190.txt|Volume 8, Issue 5 December 2014 Latest advice for medicines users Drug safety advice Ivabradine (Procoralan) in the symptomatic treatment of angina: risk of cardiac side effects—new advice to minimise risk Ivabradine may be associated with the risks of bradycardia, atrial fibrillation, and other cardiovascular risks. Only start ivabradine if the resting heart rate is at least 70 beats per minute. Isotretinoin (Roaccutane): reminder of possible risk of psychiatric disorders—warn patients and family; monitor patients for signs of depression Following a review of the latest evidence of an association between isotretinoin and psychiatric disorders, we remind you to monitor all patients for signs of depression and refer for appropriate treatment if necessary. Warn patients and their family that isotretinoin might cause psychiatric disorders and tell them to watch out for symptoms Hydroxyethyl starch intravenous infusions to be used only in patients with acute blood loss and when crystalloids alone are not sufficient The licences of all hydroxyethyl starch (HES) products were suspended in the UK in June 2013. A European regulatory review of the benefits and risks of HES has since been completed. 
file_125.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
file_620.txt|Working patterns - fatigue Working patterns - fatigue If not properly planned and controlled, rail staff working patterns can create risks to passengers, rail staff and others. Hours of work, working patterns and other conditions of service are matters for agreement between employers and staff, but it is vital that working patterns are designed to reduce risks from fatigue, so far as is reasonably practicable. This page outlines why the rail industry needs to take staff fatigue seriously, and provides links to some key guidance including our publication 'Managing Rail Staff Fatigue' pdf icon PDF, 1,638 Kb . What is fatigue? There are several types of fatigue, but we are particularly concerned with mental fatigue. Mental fatigue can be caused by prolonged working, heavy workload, insufficient rest and inadequate sleep.  Continual mental effort and attention on a particular task can also contribute to fatigue. It is important that workers are not fatigued when their work is critical to safe operation, such as work done by drivers, signallers and maintenance staff. There are obvious safety risks for railway workers and others if this happens. It must be effectively managed. What is the problem with fatigue? Fatigue reduces workers' mental alertness and can affect performance. Errors caused by impaired concentration, perception, judgement or memory may become more likely. People may become more impatient. Ultimately this can lead to drowsiness or involuntary sleep. Fatigue may cause or contribute to potentially dangerous errors. A signal may be misread or overlooked, an important instruction or message may be misunderstood and staff will be more likely to make an error. Examples of fatigue a driver moves away forgetting that permission has not been given; a track worker carrying out maintenance or renewal work fails to complete necessary checks or procedures before finishing a job; a signaller sets an incorrect route or gives an incorrect message; a track worker falls asleep on the motorway while driving back home after working all night to complete the job. What causes fatigue? Fatigue can be caused by a number of factors including: the job design, the workload and the working environment; the length and timing of shifts (e.g. long night shifts, shift start times); the nature of the changes between shifts (shift rotation), especially backward rotation; the balance in concentration and stimulation in the work activities being undertaken; the nature and duration of any time spent travelling; insufficient rest breaks both between shifts and within a shift; and the time of day. How should it be managed? Fatigue management should include: development and implementation of appropriate policies; design of working patterns and shift rosters; risk assessing changes to working patterns and rosters; monitoring levels of fatigue; and fatigue education. What legislation covers fatigue and working hours? All employers have general duties under the Health and Safety at Work etc Act and the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations to control risks from fatigue. If their staff carry out "safety critical" work, they have additional fatigue management duties under Regulation 25 of the ROGS Regulations. Additionally, the EC's working time directive covers the number of hours railway employees can work. From 1 August 2003, working time regulations entitle railway workers to an average 48 hour working week, including sufficient rest periods. Workers can choose to work for longer than the average 48 hours per week if they wish, although employers cannot require them to do so. More detailed information can be found in our publication 'Managing Rail Staff Fatigue' pdf icon PDF, 1,638 Kb . Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_898.txt|Statistical releases Statistical releases From September 2013, we publish regular commentary on rail statistics under eight themes – including performance and safety. These releases are designed to help the user interpret the data and are accredited National Statistics. As part of our commitment to improving the quality of our statistics in line with requirements for National Statistics accreditation, we are publishing themed statistical releases from September 2013. These releases will provide contextual commentary on statistics across a common topic and will aid the user in the interpretation of the data. Data tables will also be available via the Data portal . The statistical releases will be published under eight themes. Here you can access the latest publication for each theme: Passenger and freight rail performance Public performance measure (PPM), freight performance measure (FPM) and cancellations and significant lateness (CaSL). Latest statistical release: Download the Passenger and freight rail performance statistical release 2014-15 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 233 Kb Published 13 November 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Passenger and freight rail performance quality report pdf icon PDF, 228 Kb . Passenger rail usage Passenger kilometres, passenger journeys, passenger revenue and timetabled train kilometres (TTKM). Latest statistical release: Download the Passenger rail usage statistical release 2014-15 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 630 Kb Published 11 December 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Passenger rail usage quality report pdf icon PDF, 385 Kb . Freight rail usage Freight moved, freight lifted, normalised freight delay, freight market indicators. Latest statistical release: Download the Freight rail usage statistical release 2014-15 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 431 Kb Published 27 November 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Freight rail usage quality report pdf icon PDF, 159 Kb . Passenger rail service satisfaction Complaints, appeals and National Rail Enquiries (NRE) telephone service. Latest statistical release: Download the Passenger rail service satisfaction statistical release 2014-15 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 444 Kb Published 18 December 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Passenger rail service satisfaction quality report pdf icon PDF, 533 Kb . Regional usage Regional Usage Profiles (Passenger Journeys) for each Region of Great Britain. Latest statistical release: Download the Regional usage profiles statistical release 2012-13 pdf icon PDF, 577 Kb Published 24 April 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Regional Usage Profiles quality report pdf icon PDF, 355 Kb . Key safety statistics Key safety facts, passenger key safety facts, public key safety facts, workforce key safety facts and train accidents key facts. Latest statistical release: Download the Safety key statistics 2013-14 annual statistical release pdf icon PDF, 536 Kb Published 25 September 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Key safety statistics quality report pdf icon PDF, 398 Kb Rail finance Government support to the rail industry, rail fares index and private investment. Latest statistical release: Download the Rail finance 2013-14 annual statistical release pdf icon PDF, 601 Kb Published 21 August 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Rail finance quality report pdf icon PDF, 341 Kb Rail infrastructure, assets and environment Infrastructure on the railways, average age of rolling stock and sustainable development. Latest statistical release: Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Rail infrastructure, assets and environment quality report pdf icon PDF, 381 Kb The regional usage, key safety statistics, rail finance and rail infrastructure, assets and environmental statistical releases will be published annually. All other statistical releases will be published quarterly. All of the quarterly statistical releases have been badged as National Statistics, in accordance with the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007. For further information on the Code of Practice and National Statistics accreditation, please visit the UK Statistics Authority. To see when we publish the statistical releases and data tables, please visit our publications schedule . Please contact us for more information. Last updated - 18 December 2014 
file_303.txt|Privacy & cookies Introduction When we provide services, we want to make them easy, useful and reliable. Where services are delivered on the internet, this sometimes involves placing small amounts of information on your device, for example, computer or mobile phone. These include small files known as cookies. They cannot be used to identify you personally. These pieces of information are used to improve services for you through, for example: enabling a service to recognise your device so you don't have to give the same information several times during one task recognising that you may already have given a username and password so you don't need to do it for every web page requested measuring how many people are using services, so they can be made easier to use and there's enough capacity to ensure they are fast analysing anonymised data to help us understand how people interact with govt services so we can make them better You can manage these small files and learn more about them from the article, Internet Browser cookies- what they are and how to manage them If you'd like to learn how to remove cookies set on your device, visit: http://www.aboutcookies.org/Default.aspx?page=1 ‘Our use of cookies’ Our use of cookies Google Analytics sets cookies to help us accurately estimate the number of visitors to the website and volumes of usage. This is to ensure that the NRT Portal is available when you want it, and to help us improve functionality. Google Analytics uses the following cookies: Name: _utma Purpose: to understand the number of visits, and the time of the first visit, the previous visit, and the current visit Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: 2 years Name: _utmb Purpose: to understand approximately how long visitors stay on a site, when a visit starts, and approximately ends Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: 30 minutes Name: _utmc Purpose: to understand approximately how long visitors stay on a site, when a visit starts, and approximately ends Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: when user exits browser Name: _utmd Purpose: to understand how the site was reached (e.g. directly or via a link, organic search or paid search) Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: 6 months Purpose: to understand which organisations have accessed the site Typical content: N/A Expires: when user exits browser Name: _utmz degradation Purpose: to understand the search engine and / or keyword followed to access the site Typical content: randomly generated number + info on how the site was reached (e.g. directly or via a link, organic search or paid search) Expires: 6 months For further details on the cookies set by Google Analytics, please refer to the Google Code website [1] The NRT portal also contains cookies improving performance (sticky sessions) and recording user preferences: Name: SESS6d06618e38d293160fd84a95eb1227de Purpose: This cookie sets a unique session id. It can be used tostore information in a form of a session identification that does not personally identify the user Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: 1 month Name: NSC_pss-qspexfc-wjq-iuuq Purpose:   Identify the session, allowing a session to return to the same server even if the client has changed IP addresses. Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: when user exits browser Name: NSC_pss-qspexfc-wjq-ttm Purpose: Identify the session, allowing a session to return to the same server even if the client has changed IP addresses. Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: when user exits browser Name: has_js Purpose: This cookie informs the content mangement system whether you have javascript enabled in your browser settings. It can deliver content in a suitable way depending on your settings. Typical content: 1 - which indicates that your browser supports javascript Expires: when user exits browser Third-party cookies We use a number of suppliers who may also set cookies on their websites' on its behalf Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) The ORR uses cookies to distinguish you from other users. This helps to provide you with a better experience when you visit and also allows them to improve their site by analysing statistics. Name: PHPSESSID Purpose: Is the unique identifier for the user's session, so the content management system knows who they are, what the last page they visited was, etc (important for ensuring when someone clicks on a content link, the content is display in the correct navigational context). Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.rail-reg.gov.uk/server/show/nav.2776 Name: LPSCM002 Purpose: Is used to hint to a load balancer which machine should serve the request (ideally the same machine would serve a single user's entire visit to maintain session data which is usually stored on disk) Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.rail-reg.gov.uk/server/show/nav.2776 Network Rail Network Rail uses cookies to distinguish you from other users. This helps to provide you with a better experience when you visit and also allows them to improve their site by analysing statistics. Name: NR-BETA Purpose:This cookie is used by our server infrastructure to maintain a consistent connection between your browser and a particular web server. Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: ecm Purpose:This cookie is used by Ektron, the content management system which powers our website. It is used to store (anonymous) information about the user including language and site information Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: EktGUID Purpose:This cookie is used by Ektron, the content management system which powers our website. A unique identifier for the current user is generated for all and assigned at the time they first arrive on the site. Expires: 1 year Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: EkAnalytics Purpose:This cookie is used by Ektron, the content management system which powers our website. It is an anonymous user type identifier for an analytics feature. Expires: 1 year Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: ASP.NET_SessionId Purpose:This cookie is the default one used by asp.net to uniquely identify the user's session on the site and relates the visitor's unique session to server side data. Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: lastClickedId Purpose:Navigation cookie set by Network Rail during browsing of the website. The cookie tracks the user’s page request sequence and displays navigation path followed on screen. Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx SurveyMonkey When we provide links to third party services you find useful, SurveyMonkey may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Name: ep201 Purpose:When we provide links to third party services you find useful, they may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Their policy on use may be found on the link below. Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/useofNRT Name: ep202 Purpose:When we provide links to third party services you find useful, they may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Their policy on use may be found on the link below. Expires: 1 year Link: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/useofNRT Name: TS54026e Purpose: When we provide links to third party services you find useful, they may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Their policy on use may be found on the link below. Expires: When you close the browser How to control and delete cookies We will not use cookies to collect personally identifiable information about you. However, if you wish to restrict or block the cookies which are set by our websites, or indeed any other website, you can do this through your browser settings. The ‘Help’ function within your browser should tell you how. Alternatively, you may wish to visit www . aboutcookies . org which contains comprehensive information on how to do this on a wide variety of browsers. You will also find details on how to delete cookies from your machine as well as more general information about cookies. Please be aware that restricting cookies may impact on the functionality of our website. If you wish to view your cookie code, just click on a cookie to open it. You'll see a short string of text and numbers. The numbers are your identification card, which can only be seen by the server that gave you the cookie. For information on how to do this on the browser of your mobile phone you will need to refer to your handset manual. To opt-out of third-parties collecting any data regarding your interaction on our website, please refer to their websites for further information. Break-down of identified cookie-supported functionality In line with the original COI guidance, many departments, agencies and NDPBs have taken steps to publish information about their use of  cookies, with varying degrees of comprehensiveness. A very basic audit of departments' websites, based mainly on the information provided within relevant “Privacy and cookies” policy pages, has been carried out by ORR.  45 cookies were identified through this process. These were then categorised into 8 broad groups (excluding the group for cookies labelled “miscellaneous” due to insufficient information provided on their  purpose): Cookie function 
file_213.txt|Home About us Working for us Working for us Printer friendly version (new window) The MHRA currently employs over 900 staff. Our main workforce is located in London, with other satellite offices around the UK. The MHRA is an executive agency of the Department of Health and as such is a part of the wider Civil Service. Current job vacancies We currently have several exciting vacancies in various locations. You can apply online via the civil service jobs website. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Working for the MHRA This page sets out some of the benefits of working at the MHRA, including flexible working, a focus on work-life balance and our learning and development opportunities. 
file_860.txt|Guidance for operators and prospective operators of trains, stations, networks and light maintenance depots on how to submit a full application for a licence or licence exemption, with supporting evidence. 24 Jul 2014 Route-level efficiency benefit sharing (REBS) mechanism The route level efficiency benefit sharing (REBS) mechanism will encourage Network Rail and train operators (passenger and freight) to work together and allow both to share in Network Rail’s efficiency gains or losses on an annual basis. REBS is designed to strengthen the alignment of incentives between Network Rail and train operators in order to support greater co-operation to drive down industry costs. 16 Apr 2014 Network Rail’s regulatory accounts provide information on Network Rail’s financial performance on a regulatory basis. 21 Mar 2014 Land disposal by Network Rail: the regulatory arrangements pdf icon PDF, 303 Kb The general consent which allows Network Rail to dispose of land without prior notice in certain situations; the criteria we will use in deciding whether we should intervene when notified of a proposed disposal; and our policies relating to major air rights, compulsory purchase orders, the subletting of land, and the potential for compensation after a blocked disposal. 18 Dec 2013 Periodic review 2013 (PR13) guide It is our responsibility to ensure that Network Rail delivers what the Westminster and Scottish governments want – and provides real value for money for customers and taxpayers. This covers everything from running and maintaining the existing rail network, right up to developing new facilities and services. Every five years, we conduct a periodic review of Network Rail’s plans for the next control period. 31 Oct 2013 Localism Act 2011 - delivering ORR’s duty to cooperate pdf icon PDF, 92 Kb The purpose of this guidance is to set out: which plans local authorities should consult ORR about; what information should be provided to ORR; and how we will work with local authorities to review plans and what timescales should be allowed. 17 Sep 2013 Guide aimed at people or organisations that are new to the issues surrounding rail regulation and want to know what steps a prospective train operator will have to take before it starts running services. 23 Jul 2013 Our criteria and procedures for processing applications for track access contracts. 22 Jan 2013 Our criteria and procedures for processing applications for framework agreements on the HS1 network. 20 Dec 2012 Our criteria and procedures for processing applications for depot access agreements. 20 Dec 2010 Our criteria and procedures for processing applications for station access agreements. 20 Dec 2010 A set of policies and guidelines describing how investments arising between periodic reviews should be treated. 29 Oct 2010 The approach we will take in exercising our consumer law enforcement role with regard to services relating to the railways. 30 Mar 2010 Guide to our approach to reviewing markets, setting out why we review markets, how we prioritise markets to review, the way we conduct market studies and describes the range of possible outcomes. 28 Oct 2009 Guidance on how we intend to assess new international rail passenger services. 9 Jun 2009 These guidelines apply to all Route Utilisation Strategies (RUSs). Where a RUS is already in progress it should comply with any new or revised aspects of these guidelines to the extent that it is reasonably practicable to do so. 1 Apr 2009 A list of our health and safety guidance. 6 Jan 2009 Outline of how applications proposing amendment of the Delay Attribution Guide should be submitted to both the Delay Attribution Board (DAB) and the ORR for approval. 18 Jul 2008 A plain English guide for those concerned about the price of their rail fare or car-park charges at their station. 16 Dec 2007 Guidance on environmental arrangements for licence holders. 13 Dec 2007 Explanation of how we intend to carry out the ratification role which has been given to us under the network modification provisions of the Railways Act 2005 (“the Act”), and the procedures we intend to follow. 1 Dec 2006 Explaination of how we expect to apply the provisions of the Competition Act (and Articles 81 and 82) to services relating to railways. 30 Aug 2005 Guide intended primarily for prospective freight train operators but also others in the rail industry who need to know about the model freight track access contract (the model contract). 8 Apr 2005 The approach we will adopt in considering appeals under The Railway Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005. 1 Jan 2003 
file_810.txt|Licences by company A - E Railway licences for companies listed A – E. Abellio Greater Anglia Ltd © Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_524.txt|Policy on public expenditure transparency Government policy on public expenditure transparency The Government has set out the need for greater transparency in public expenditure. As part of the transparency agenda, the Government has made the following commitments with regard to procurement and contracting: All new central government tender documents for contracts over £10,000 to be published on a single website, with this information to be made available to the public free of charge. All new central government contracts to be published in full. New items of central government spending over £25,000 to published online. Suppliers and those organisations looking to bid for public sector contracts should be aware that if they are awarded a new government contract, the resulting contract between the supplier and government will be published. In some circumstances, limited redactions will be made to some contracts before they are published in order to comply with existing law and for the protection of national security. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_811.txt|Licences by company F - J Railway licences for companies listed F – J. First Greater Western Ltd © Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_212.txt|Home Media Centre What’s new What’s new This section lists details of new information added to the MHRA website. What's new 05 Jan 2015 ~ Dr Janet Valentine appointed as new CPRD Director The MHRA is delighted to announce the appointment of the new director for The Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD), Dr Janet Valentine with effect from today. 18 Dec 2014 ~ Class 2 medicines recall (action within 48 hours): Ebixa 5mg/pump actuation 50ml and 100ml bottle manufactured by Lundbeck Limited Lundbeck Limited is recalling specific batches of Ebixa 5mg/pump actuation 50ml and 100ml bottles because of a fault with some of the pump devices which may result in suboptimal dosage of the product. 
file_285.txt|Chemicals About Prior Informed Consent Procedure (PIC) In 1999, the United Kingdom signed the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure (PIC), which allows signatories to monitor and control the international trade of certain dangerous chemicals. In the European Union, Regulation (EU) 649/2012 concerning the export and import of hazardous chemicals implements the Rotterdam Convention and is the latest in a series of such regulations on international chemicals trade dating back to 1992. It promotes shared responsibility and co-operation and allows countries that are importing certain hazardous chemicals to specify conditions that the imported chemicals must meet. It aims to protect human health and the environment by providing developing countries with information on how to store, transport, use and dispose of hazardous chemicals safely. This regulation also includes chemicals from the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPS) the export of which is banned. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) and Health and Safety Executive Northern Ireland (HSENI) are the Designated National Authorities for the UK. HSE provides information on Regulation (EU) 649/2012 on behalf of the UK Designated National Authorities. Resources 
file_399.txt|COSHH and engineering workers - key messages Substances hazardous to health in engineering include: dusts from mechanical cutting, shaping and  abrasive blasting; gases and fumes from welding, soldering, and  cutting; mists and germs in metalworking fluids; lubricants, adhesives, paints, degreasing and  stripping fluids; plating and pickling fluids, and molten salt  baths; fluid treatment products. dust, fume or vapour extraction; respirators; fluid maintenance; skin checks. You may need to use health surveillance (Check employees health for any adverse effects related to work. May involve checking skin for dermatitis or asking questions about breathing and may need to done by a doctor or nurse.) Example: metalworking fluids (MWF) MWF can cause dermatitis or other skin diseases. Mists from poorly managed water-mix MWF can cause occupational asthma. Help with identifying the right control is on the Metalworking web site . Control information for MWF appears in the following information sheets available from the COSHH essentials web tool : 
file_393.txt|The health and safety toolbox: How to control risks at work Social media This site provides helpful areas of advice, which apply to all workplaces. Introduction You need to take the right precautions to reduce the risks of workplace dangers and provide a safe working environment. Health and safety management should be a straightforward part of managing your business as a whole. It involves practical steps that protect people from harm and 			at the same time protect the future success of your business. How to manage health and safety Managing health and safety is an integral part of managing your business. You need to do a risk assessment to find out about the risks in your workplace, put sensible measures in place to control them, and make sure they stay controlled. If you are a small low risk business and have already read Health and Safety Made Simple , then it is likely that you won’t need to read this information. However, if you want more detailed information on particular aspects of managing the health and safety in your workplace such as ‘Consulting your employees’ or ‘Providing supervision’ then you will find it here Your organisation This part of the site covers issues that can affect your workers and may need action at an organisational level. Each section explains how factors in your workplace can have an impact, either because of the nature of the work or the way it is managed. The sections relate to hazards and health issues you may need to assess and take action to deal with – they could be included in your health and safety policy. Your workers Everyone who works for you needs to know how to work safely and without risks to health. As an employer, giving your workers the right knowledge and skills is not only a legal duty but also can contribute to the success of your business. Your workplace You must provide a safe and healthy environment for all your employees and take their welfare needs into account. However, this doesn't have to be complicated or time-consuming. This applies to a very wide range of workplaces, not only factories, shops and offices but also, for example, schools, hospitals, hotels and places of entertainment. 
file_803.txt|Approval of CHPs for new franchises or new operators Approval of CHPs for new franchises or new operators Newly licensed operators or those with new franchise awards must establish and comply with a procedure to handle complaints. The licence condition sets out the steps required: consultation on the draft CHP with the relevant passenger representative groups (Passenger Focus and London TravelWatch); submission to ORR for approval Submissions to ORR should include: the draft CHP; and feedback from the consultation, and an explanation of how the feedback has been taken into account. Criteria and process for approval Criteria Operators must determine the procedures they wish to follow to handle complaints. Our approval of complaints is made on a judgement of whether the proposed CHP is: fit for purpose, to ensure complaints are dealt with fairly, objectively and within a reasonable period of time given the seriousness of the complaint raised; kept under review, with sufficient management information to judge the effectiveness of existing complaint handling procedures and identify improvements; and demonstrates a commitment by the operator to take complaints seriously and act on information from complaints A successful CHP will also be clear and easily accessible to passengers or other potential complaints, and will support any appeal made to Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch. To support this assessment, we will continue to rely on the existing guidance published in 2005 pdf icon PDF, 70 Kb . This will be replaced in due course. Process We will acknowledge receipt of the CHP and supporting documents within 5 working days; We aim to review and approve submitted CHP within 20 working data of receipt; Operators should expect to assist us with resolving specific queries or issues. Where we have substantive concerns we will discuss these, and allow additional time for revisions to CHP. In these cases we aim to resolve concerns within an agreed timescale. Further information 
file_23.txt|On and after your staging date On your staging date, the automatic enrolment duties for your business come into force. From your staging date, you’ll have to automatically enrol all staff who are eligible. You’ll also have to write to each member of staff to tell them what automatic enrolment means for them. When you must do this depends on whether you’ve decided to postpone. You’ll then need to a complete a declaration of compliance (registration) with us to tell us how you’ve complied. On this page Key points Your staging date is when the automatic enrolment duties come into force for your business. You’ll need to identify what your duties are for each member of staff on your staging date or at the end of postponement. You’ll need to have the correct software in place to help you correctly identify your duties. If you’re postponing automatic enrolment, the postponement period starts from your staging date. You’ll have six weeks from your staging date or the day after postponement ends to enrol all staff who are eligible and make them active members of your pension scheme. You’ll have six weeks from your staging date during which you must write to all staff telling them about their rights and what automatic enrolment means for them, or that you’ve postponed automatic enrolment for them. You’ll have five months from your staging date to complete your declaration and submit it to us, to tell us how you’ve complied. Postponing automatic enrolment at staging You can use postponement on your staging date to delay automatic enrolment for some or all staff for up to three months. For example, if you know someone will be leaving within three months of your staging date, you can apply postponement to them. This means you won’t need to assess them to identify what duties you have for them until the last day of the postponement period, at which point you must automatically enrol any who are eligible. For more information go to postponement . Back to top Identifying your duties You’ll need to know which staff you’ll have to automatically enrol and which staff have a right to opt in or join your pension scheme. You must make this assessment on either: your staging date, or the last day of the postponement period. To remind yourself of what to assess go to know your workforce . Your duties At staging or when postponement ends, your key duties are to: automatically enrol all staff who are eligible and make them active members of your pension scheme write to each member of staff to tell them how automatic enrolment affects them submit a declaration online to us to tell us how you’ve complied with your duties. You’ll need to tell your pension scheme about the staff you’re enrolling. To find out what you need to arrange with your pension scheme go to setting up a pension scheme . For information about how to make someone a member of your pension scheme go to automatically enrolling your staff . For more information about telling us you’ve complied and why this is important go to using automatic enrolment online declaration . 
file_337.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_412.txt|This website uses non-intrusive cookies to improve your user experience. You can visit our cookie privacy page for more information. 
file_808.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_394.txt|Example: grain dust Grain dust can cause asthma and other diseases when breathed in. You must reduce exposure to grain dust as far below the WEL of 10 mg/m3 as is reasonably practicable. You normally need to use health surveillance . (Check employees health for any adverse effects related to work. This may involve checking skin for dermatitis or asking questions about breathing and may need to be done by a doctor or nurse.) Help to identify the right controls is on the agriculture website . Control information for grain dust appears in the following information sheets available from the COSHH essentials web tool : 
file_335.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_20.txt|Information to put into your software Key points You’ll need to know which of your staff you have to automatically enrol and which will have a right to request to join, and you’ll need software to help you do this. The software will need to monitor the ages and earnings of your staff and tell you what you need to do with each member of staff. You should test that your software works before your staging date. You’ll need to do a data cleansing exercise to make sure your records are up to date. Automatic enrolment functionality The functionality needed to help you assess whether your staff should be automatically enrolled may already be built into the payroll software you use. Or the person who does your payroll for you may already have appropriate software. You should check with your software or payroll provider to see if your current systems will work out who you have to automatically enrol. Back to top Questions to ask software providers You need to find out if your software can identify whether you have staff that you will need to automatically enrol. If you don’t have access to the necessary software, you will need to get it. When speaking to your existing software provider or selecting new software, you should ask whether the system: assesses your workforce allows the use of postponement calculates pension contributions handles opt outs and refunds supports you in generating and issuing letters to your staff keeps records and provide reports interoperates with some or all pension scheme provider systems. If you are selecting new software you should ensure that it is compatible with your existing systems. Back to top Information to put into your software Having got the right software in place, you’ll need to know how to use it before you get to your staging date. This means understanding: what information you need to put in how to configure it what outputs the software will give and how. You’ll need to test your software ahead of your staging date to ensure you understand how it works. And to check that you know where to find all the information you’ll need. Maintaining up-to-date records It is crucial that you hold accurate information about your staff, their personal and address information and the contributions that have been made on their behalf. Inaccurate records or missing data can have serious consequences, which can include staff being automatically enrolled at the wrong time, information about automatic enrolment not getting to the staff member, and the wrong amount being paid to your staff at retirement. It is your responsibility to ensure that records are correct and up-to-date. 
file_225.txt|All models Counterfeit ultrasound transducers have been supplied to 2 hospitals. These devices may not meet the performance specified by Toshiba. There have been no reports of patient harm. Transducers supplied directly by Toshiba Medical Systems UK are not affected. MHRA and Toshiba will continue to investigate this matter as new cases appear. The MHRA has become aware that counterfeit Toshiba ultrasound transducers have been found in two hospitals in the UK. As there is no evidence of patient harm, MHRA is not recommending that patients are called back to their hospital or clinic. We are publishing this alert as a precautionary measure to raise awareness of the issue and to ask users to check Toshiba ultrasound transducers not supplied direct from Toshiba Medical Systems UK. As counterfeits may look very similar to legitimate products, they need to be checked very carefully.  However, a competent user should easily identify a fake transducer. In addition, the device should have undergone quality checks before being brought into use. These devices are also subject to periodic quality and maintenance checks. There is guidance for healthcare providers from IPEM , SoR and CQC on the procurement, initial acceptance testing, quality assurance and maintenance of these devices. This would mean that counterfeits should be identified before use. Identify and quarantine any suspect devices. Further advice on how to identify fake devices is given on pages 2 and 3 of this alert. To authenticate suspected devices, contact your local Toshiba representative via their dedicated email report.counterfeit.uk@tmse.nl Report any counterfeit devices to the MHRA via Yellow Card Counterfeit transducers can be identified by one or more of the following characteristics: The label may be poorly attached and made of paper. It may also peel off easily and leave a residue. Toshiba labels are plastic or metal and are difficult to remove The descriptive text may be incorrect – a linear transducer array may be described as ‘convex’ Since 2005 Toshiba serial numbers are ten digits long e.g. TDA1293472. Any label with fewer numbers is likely to be counterfeit Scanning the QR code (if any) on the label will not take the user to a website or it gives a different probe type and serial number The Toshiba logo or wording may not be as sharp, and the casing may have a different finish when compared to a genuine probe Counterfeit Toshiba transducer heads can be substantially lighter in weight than genuine Toshiba items The pictures below are examples only to help identify suspected counterfeit probes. They do not represent all possible fake devices. Action by All those who use or maintain these devices. This MDA has been sent to: Care Quality Commission (CQC) (headquarters) for information Clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) HSC trusts in Northern Ireland (chief executives) Local authorities in Scotland (equipment co-ordinators) NHS boards and trusts in Wales (chief executives) NHS boards in Scotland (equipment co-ordinators) NHS England area teams for information NHS trusts in England (chief executives) Special health authorities for information Onward distribution Please bring this notice to the attention of relevant employees in your establishment. Below is a suggested list of recipients. Trusts CAS and SABS (NI) liaison officers for onward distribution to all relevant staff including: A&E departments 
file_542.txt|Safety verification Safety verification This page contains an overview of the arrangements for controlling risks arising from the introduction of new or altered vehicles and infrastructure on non-mainline rail systems. What is safety verification? When transport operators (transport undertakings or infrastructure managers) introduce new or altered rolling stock or infrastructure, they need to ensure that health and safety considerations are incorporated into their design processes. ROGS contain provisions for the safety management system (SMS) of non-mainline transport operators to include arrangements on how safety verification will be managed.  Safety verification is a flexible process to make sure that projects which could significantly increase risk are safe. The arrangements in the SMS must describe the process to control risks arising from the introduction of new or altered vehicles and infrastructure. If these risks are new or significantly increased, a safety verification process must be followed. What is the dutyholders' responsibility? The dutyholder must appoint an 'independent competent person' (ICP) to help them devise a written scheme of verification of the dutyholder's project or works assessed against a set of criteria. The ICP should be appointed early in the design process to help the dutyholder select the appropriate assessment criteria. The role of the ICP is not to provide 'sign-off' that a project is 'safe'. They are there to help the dutyholder to go through the right processes. Is a safety certificate required? No certificate will be required, but the written scheme, and the results of assessments, tests, and remedial actions should be retained by the dutyholder for the lifetime of the equipment. We do not need to be notified of projects managed under safety verification. There is no statutory approval required although we will be inspecting a sample of schemes. Are there any exceptions? The safety verification process will not apply unless the new or altered equipment is both novel to the dutyholder and is likely to give rise to a new risk or significant increase in risk, i.e. the project (or works) must meet both of the following criteria: Difference Test: the risk arising from the design is new to the dutyholder Risk Test: there will be a new risk or a significant increase in risk Projects or works where one or both of these tests do not apply will need to be managed under the dutyholder's SMS change management procedures. Further information 
file_995.txt|
file_250.txt|The Human Medicines (Amendment No. 2) Regulations 2014, SI 2014/1878 (external link) Contact for further information Further advice can be obtained from The Advertising Unit, MHRA, 151 Buckingham Palace Road Victoria London, SW1W 9SZ. Page last modified: 		 		01 October 2014 
file_483.txt|RSSB RSSB RSSB (the Rail Safety and Standards Board) was established in April 2003, in response to recommendations made by Lord Cullen in the report of the second part of the public inquiry into the Ladbroke Grove accident. As an organisation it brings together members (infrastructure managers, train operators, rolling stock leasers and suppliers) from across the mainline railway to support shared decisions, products and services with the aim of driving out unnecessary cost, improving business and safety performance and developing long-term strategy. It is a not-for-profit company owned by major industry stakeholders. The company is limited by guarantee and is governed by its members, a board and an advisory committee. It is independent of any single railway company and of their commercial interests. We have observer status on the RSSB Board. What does RSSB do? RSSB's primary objective is to support its members to achieve their objectives of improving safety and performance and value for money across the industry. It does this by providing a wide range of services to: help the industry understand risk; guide and manage the maintenance of railway standards; manage industry research and innovation programmes; and facilitate industry collaboration to drive improvement. For more information, go to the RSSB website , which includes information about its purpose and its governance. A review of RSSB's functions, governance and funding RSSB's board invited us to conduct a review of its functions, governance and funding arrangements on 2 February 2010. We carried out a wide-ranging review by seeking views from the industry and other interested parties through consultation, convened an industry advisory panel to help clarify our thinking and held an open public meeting. We received 46-responses to our public consultation, which closed on 7 May 2010, five of which were confidential. We issued our review report, which included an executive summary and made specific recommendations and observations, on 2 August 2010. You can view the consultation and related documents on the National Archives website . Since this review, RSSB's Board asked for a further strategic review in July 2012, which led to industry agreement to a revised constitution and five year business plan 2014-19 . Further information 
file_320.txt|Browse reports / data Safety and Health key statistics This section includes data on annual safety statistics for the mainline rail network, London Underground and heritage railways. It covers accidents to passengers, workforce and members of the public and information on train accidents and dangerous incidents. It also covers occupational health data for the rail industry, including manual handling and shock/trauma injuries for the mainline and London Underground. This section no longer includes wizard reports relating to the Precusor Indicator Model as this is now published separately by RSSB at http://www.safetyriskmodel.co.uk/pages/default.aspx . (Please note that registration and login is required to download the excel spreadsheet containing the raw numbers.) Safety and Health key statistics Reports 
file_253.txt|Before a medicine can be authorised for use, it must go through the clinical trials process to ensure that it is safe and effective and also that the quality of the product is sufficient. This section contains information on every aspect of the clinical trials process. About clinical trials for medicines Introduction to Clinical trials including an overview of the process involved in obtaining a clinical trial authorisation. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Is a clinical trial authorisation required? Details of when a clinical trial authorisation (CTA) is required. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Risk adapted approaches to management of clinical trials A risk proportionate approach to the initiation, management and monitoring of certain clinical trials is possible. This section provides further information, including details on how to submit via the clinical trial notification scheme. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Managing your clinical trial authorisation Information about managing a clinical trial authorisation. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Special interest groups 
file_469.txt|Croydon Tramlink How do we regulate light rail and tramways? We have responsiblity for health and safety on light rail and tramways. There is no specific safety legislation for these systems. Both infrastructure and rolling stock safety are assessed using the same criteria for heavy rail, but tailored for light weight, lower speed operation. However, there is legislation relating to highways which affects light rail and tramways. We provide advice, scrutinise proposals for planned light rail as well as inspecting existing light rail and tramways. Please read our guidance on tramways pdf icon PDF, 747 Kb . Safety issues on individual systems are normally dealt with by our field inspectors. They are supported by a small team of specialist inspectors with light rail experience who also consider new and modified works proposals. Key issues The following are key areas of interest for light rail and tramways: proposals for the application of driver licensing to light rail and tramways; the applicability of European urban transit Directives on interoperability to light rail and tramways; the applicability and relevance of other railway safety initiatives to light rail and tramways; requirements for disabled access to railways, and their application to light rail and tramways; supporting the UKTram industry groups in their work to produce guidance for light rail and tramway systems; research into safety critical issues in light rail and tramways where these differ from mainline railway practice, such as wheel/rail interface; and review of the regulatory regime for light rail and tramways. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_541.txt|Certificates issued Entities in charge of maintenance certificates issued by ORR This page contains a list of entities in charge of maintenance (ECM) certificates issued by us and links to the certificates. Name of ECM and link to certificate Date issued 
file_637.txt|Road/rail interface sites Road/rail interface sites Road rail interface programme of risk reduction as a result of the Great Heck train crash on 28 February 2001 in which 10 people were fatally injured. Road/rail interface sites The Great Heck train crash involved a road vehicle obstructing the railway line and derailing a passenger train which then collided with a freight train. There were ten deaths and several injuries to passengers and staff. Prior to the Great Heck accident, industry concerns over the risk posed to the railway by road vehicles were focused mainly on level crossings . According to the Rail Safety and Standards Board Safety Risk Model, this represented around 80% of the road/rail interface risk. Following Great Heck, other road/rail risk sites have received increased attention. How do we fit in? Our role is to monitor progress by infrastructure controllers, working with the local highway authorities completing detailed risk assessments and any necessary improvements to further reduce incursion risk at vulnerable sites. Network Rail, working with local authorities, aimed to complete this work at high risk sites on the mainline railway by March 2007. Although good progress has been made, some work remains outstanding and we continue to monitor progress. Background information The Department for Transport (DfT) produced a publication ' Managing the accidental obstruction of the railway by road vehicles ' in February 2003. Various bodies, including the Health and Safety Executive (HSE), contributed to this publication which details a risk ranking process to be followed at each road over rail bridge and each adjacent road/rail site. Higher ranked locations (estimated to number around 1,500) should be subjected to a secondary assessment which will determine any necessary improvements. The report set out what the highway authorities, rail infrastructure authorities and other organisations needed to do to identify how they could jointly manage the risk of road vehicles getting onto the railway. It included a protocol for apportioning responsibility and costs of mitigation measures. British Transport Police agreed to standardise the collection of data about such incidents. In order to update the standards for safety barriers on major roads in a clear and open procedure, the Highways Agency set up a technical project board. Prior to the publication of the DfT report, the Health and Safety Commission published the findings of its working group on the 'obstruction of the railway by road vehicles' in February 2002. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_785.txt|Track access factsheet Track access factsheet If a railway operator wants to run trains on the rail network, it must seek the independent rail regulator's approval for a track access agreement with Network Rail. To view the infographic in full please open the link in Related documents. Last updated - 27 November 2014 
file_722.txt|Criteria and procedures Criteria and procedures We have published a document on the criteria and procedures pdf icon PDF, 679 Kb (C&Ps) which we expect to follow in approving track access contracts for the High Speed 1 (HS1) network. We expect train operators (both current and potential), and HS1 Limited, together with any other interested parties, to follow the C&Ps set out when negotiating and submitting applications for access to the HS1 network. The C&Ps document is continually reviewed and updated to take account of changing circumstances and policies. Parties are advised to confirm that they are using the most recent edition, which will always be the version contained on this webpage. Our regulation of HS1 reflects the specific circumstances of HS1 Limited and the HS1 network, and is not intended to create any expectation about our approach to regulation of the Great Britain national network, or other networks, including any future high speed lines. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_321.txt|This section displays all of the statistics that are currently available on the data portal. All reports and data 
file_669.txt|Final determination of Network Rail's outputs and funding for 2014-19 Final determination Our final determination sets out our overall package of decisions for the periodic review 2013 (PR13). It follows our consideration of stakeholder responses to our draft determination , published for consultation in June 2013. Following our final determination, we will begin the process of implementing our determination for the start of control period 5 (CP5) on 1 April 2014. PR13 is the process through which we determine the outputs that Network Rail must deliver, the efficient cost of delivering those outputs, and the access charges the company can levy on train operators for using its network to recover those costs. It covers the period from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019, which is called control period 5 (CP5). PR13 also establishes the wider 'regulatory framework' including the incentives that will act on Network Rail, train operators and others in the industry to deliver and outperform our determination. 
file_378.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_911.txt|Passenger journeys, passenger kilometres and complaints rate - Why are data provisional? pdf icon PDF, 44 Kb Published 31 Oct 2011 Improving rail data A number of reviews have been commissioned by us to ensure that its data are robust and align with stakeholder requirements. Links to the reports can be found below: NRT Data Portal user group meeting note - Tuesday 5 March 2013 pdf icon PDF, 88 Kb . National rail trends portal survey, September 201 pdf icon PDF, 108 Kb 1  - a summary of the results and key findings from the portal survey. It also includes how we are addressing the key findings from the survey. Office of Rail Regulation survey form for NRT data portal pdf icon PDF, 398 Kb – a copy of the online survey from sent to registered users of the NRT data portal to assess the quality, timeliness and format of the portal. Putting rail information in the public domain pdf icon PDF, 1,330 Kb ( – a report from ORR and Passenger Focus on research carried out into what performance measures passengers wanted published, how it should be made publicly available, how they would use  it and what benefits they saw it would bring. We see this initiative as being fully consistent with the Government's open data agenda. Review of National rail trends, 2006 pdf icon PDF, 544 Kb – a review of the datasets within the NRT, with recommendations on how to improve quality. Improving rail data, 2006 pdf icon PDF, 3,304 Kb – an overview of Network Rail's systems and sets out a process for assessing industry datasets against a Data Code. National rail trends stakeholder survey, 2007 pdf icon PDF, 47 Kb – to determine who used NRT and what improvements / further data they would like to see. Feedback We welcome feedback. Please send an email to rstats@orr.gsi.gov.uk with any comments or suggestions and we will reply to you. Last updated - 21 August 2014 
file_517.txt|Making a request for information Making a request for information A request for information under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 should be made in writing to ORR's customer correspondence team . Responding to a request for information The customer correspondence team aims aims to respond to requests for information within twenty working days of receipt. If we need to extend this deadline, we will let you know within the original twenty day period and try to give an indication of when we expect to respond in full. We aim to release all information requested unless we do not hold the information or if an exemption applies as set out in the Act. Some exemptions are subject to the public interest test meaning that we must consider whether the public interest in withholding the information requested outweighs the public interest in disclosure. We can refuse requests on costs grounds or if they are considered vexatious or 'identical or substantially similar' to a previous request from the same person within a reasonable time period. If we decide that the requested information should not be disclosed or can be refused, we will respond in writing explaining the reasons for that decision. Complaints and appeals If an applicant does not agree with our decision in relation to a request for information or has any other complaint in relation to our handling of a request, then the applicant can request an internal review. Details of how to appeal will be provided to you with our response. An applicant may refer the matter to the Information Commissioner .As we are a relatively small non-ministerial government department, there may be instances where ORR's Directors Group was involved in the original decision. If this is the case, we will waive our right to consider the complaint or appeal internally. We will inform an applicant where we waive our internal complaints procedure. An applicant could then appeal directly to the Information Commissioner. Statistics on implementation in central government Statistics on the handling of requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act by central government bodies, departments of state and ORR, are available on the Ministry of Justice website . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_419.txt|
file_600.txt|Health and safety prosecutions Details of ORR health and safety prosecutions resulting in conviction since 1 April 2006. Prior to 1 April 2006, the Health and Safety Executive enforced health and safety legislation for railways and you will find relevant notices on the HSE website . Company prosecuted pdf icon PDF, 20 Kb Serious SPAD (Signal passed at danger) at Hitchin. The driver, Scott Walford, had failed to set up his cab secure radio, then on passing the signal at danger reset the Train Protection & Warning System (TPWS) and continued. The signaller to driver communication failed due to the radio not being set up for the journey. The train was eventually stopped by a general emergency broadcast, two signal sections beyond the SPAD. 08-Sep-2013 BAM Nuttall Ltd pdf icon PDF, 21 Kb BAM Nuttall Ltd was the principal contractor employed by Network Rail to demolish and replace Pouparts Bridge, located between Clapham Junction and Battersea Park in South London. The company had sub-contracted the lifting elements of the work to Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd. On 27 December 2010, Balfour Beatty construction workers were preparing to lift a steel and concrete 'L' shaped beam, weighing approximately six tonnes, by crane from a railway wagon into its new position on the bridge. The beam toppled over as it was being unsecured from the wagon, crushing the legs of a worker just above the ankle on the floor of the rail wagon. He suffered severe injuries which led to one leg being amputated. 27-Dec-2010 SW Global Resourcing Limited pdf icon PDF, 25 Kb Mr Leslie Watson, an employee of SW Global Resourcing, was working from the basket of a MEWP positioned at a height of approximately 13 metres (42 feet) at Annick Water Viaduct, Stewarton, Ayrshire. The plinth that the MEWP was positioned on had been built with no end stop or edge protection to remove the risk of the MEWP falling from it. The MEWP drove off the edge of the concrete plinth and overturned, throwing Mr Watson from its basket against a column of the viaduct and from there to the shallow river bed. He died at the scene as a result of his injuries. 13-Apr-2010 pdf icon PDF, 20 Kb On 27 March 2011, rail workers subcontracted by Balfour Beatty as part of the Thameslink project, were installing high voltage cable next to overhead lines near Cricklewood in North West London. As a worker checked the distance between the newly installed cable and overhead wire, he made contact with the live wire and suffered 45% burns which required extensive skin graft surgery. 27-Mar-11 Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd pdf icon PDF, 26 Kb On 11th June 2008, three Network Rail employees were injured when a mobile elevated work platform on which they were working, during the repair of damaged overhead lines on an area of track near Margaretting in Essex, detached. They were thrown to the ground. One of the three, Malcolm Slater, later died from his injuries. 11-Jun-08 On the 2 July 2011, one of ORR's Inspectors of Railways attended the site of a Network Rail construction project at River Gowy, near Chester as part of a routine visit. 30-Sep-03 On the 26th May 2011, during the evening rush hour peak, approximately 800 passengers were trapped on a broken down train for approximately three hours at Dock Junction between St Pancras International and Kentish Town stations following a power failure. 26-May-11 Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 31 Kb Network Rail were fined for breaches of health and safety law which led to a 10 year old boy sustaining serious head injuries when the vehicle he was a passenger in was hit by a train on an unmanned level crossing near Beccles, Suffolk in 2010. The court heard the crossing did not have a phone in place so that people could check if trains were due. The train was travelling at 55mph (90km/h) when the vehicle was struck, throwing the boy from the vehicle where he sustained head injuries after landing on the track. ORR established that the crash was caused by poor visibility when people were crossing from the south side. 03-Jul-10 Breaches of health and safety law which led to an electrician being injured after falling from height. 09-Dec-10 Breaches of health and safety law that led to two rail workers being seriously injured when carrying out repairs to a ballast regulator. 25-Mar-09 19-Apr-13 £60,000 Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd, and GT Railway Maintenance (trading as Carillion Rail) pdf icon PDF, 31 Kb Breaches of health and safety law led to the death of Mr Liam Robinson, a GT Railway Maintenance employee who had been undertaking maintenance on a Network Rail owned machine, when an electrical fault caused the machine to move, trapping Mr Robinson inside. 30-Sep-03 Breaches of health and safety law which led to an engineering train running out of control for over four miles on the London Underground Northern Line. 13-Aug-10 Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 38 Kb Breaches of health and safety law which resulted in the serious injury of a Network Rail track maintenance worker. The court heard evidence that the work was inadequately planned by unqualified personnel and, despite safer methods being available, was scheduled to be carried out whilst trains continued to run, placing the track maintenance workers in unnecessary danger. 30-Mar-10 English, Welsh and Scottish Railways International (EWSI) pdf icon PDF, 30 Kb English, Welsh and Scottish Railways International (EWSI) were fined for breaches of health and safety law which led to the death of Liam Gill, aged 13, and the serious injury of two teenage boys, aged 14, at Allerton rail depot in Liverpool. 09-Aug-09 Wensleydale Railway were fined for breaches of health and safety law which led to a collision between a train and a car at a level crossing near Newton-le-Willows in North Yorkshire. 01-Aug-11 Telford Steam Railway pdf icon PDF, 34 Kb Telford Steam Railway were fined for criminal breaches of health and safety law, which left a member of its staff with extensive injuries. The incident occurred when a 450kg length of rail was moved from a wagon to the trackside by a crane, and struck a member of staff, who suffered extensive injuries to both legs. 02-Jul-11 Southeastern were fined for two breaches of health and safety law which led to a train running out of control for over three miles in East Sussex. 08-Nov-10 Network Rail's failure to act on substantial evidence that pedestrians using the crossing had insufficient sight of approaching trains. Pedestrians were therefore exposed to an increased safety risk when using the crossing. This resulted in the death at the footpath. 06-May-09 Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 30 Kb Network Rail Infrastructure Limited were fined for breaches of health and safety law which led to the death of one Network Rail maintenance worker, and the serious injury of another, in two incidents that took place in the Thames Valley region. 29 Apr and 23 May 2007 25-May-12 Frank Smith pdf icon PDF, 29 Kb Frank Smith was driving a South West Trains service from Twickenham to London Waterloo when he overran the platform at St Margaret's station, where it was due to stop. After using the emergency brake, the train came to rest past a signal at the end of the platform. 13-Feb-11 Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 30 Kb Network Rail's failure to provide and implement suitable and sufficient standards, procedures, guidance, training, tools and resources for the inspection and maintenance of fixed stretcher-bar points led to a train derailing at Grayrigg, causing the death of one passenger and injuring 86 people. 27-Feb-07 Network Rail were fined for two breaches of health and safety law which led to the deaths of two teenage girls at Elsenham station footpath crossing. 03-Dec-05 Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 19 Kb A train struck two grinding trolleys placed on the line by track workers for maintenance purposes. This was as a result of Network Rail failing to provide a safe system of work through failing to plan and review risk prevention measures for the carrying out of maintenance work by their employees, placing them at risk of being struck by trains. 24-Jun-08 Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 19 Kb Network Rail had failed to properly consider the impact of the position of a building it had installed alongside New Barn level crossing. The building severely restricted visibility at the crossing, especially for those driving farm vehicles over the private level crossing, resulting in an increased risk of a train colliding with vehicles using the crossing. 4 May 2009 to 24 Sep 2009 18-Oct-11 Network Rail Infrastructure Limited pdf icon PDF, 19 Kb The incident occurred when a lorry delivering to a Network Rail construction site in Barrow Upon Soar, Leicestershire, struck a footbridge over the railway. The footbridge subsequently collapsed, blocking the rail line, and shortly afterwards a Nottingham to Norwich train, travelling at 65 mph, crashed into the debris and derailed. 01-Feb-08 
file_135.txt|Back to top Initial investigation by the regulator's case team Cases in which the regulator’s decision must be made by the Determinations Panel are initially investigated by the regulator’s case teams.  If appropriate, these cases are then referred by the case teams to the Panel for a determination. The case teams sit in an operational directorate of the regulator, operate separately from the Panel and ordinarily comprise a case manager (who will usually be the primary point of contact for any parties involved in the investigation), a lawyer, a business analyst and an actuary. Back to top Standard procedure If, having investigated a case, the case team believes that the exercise of one or more of the regulator's functions may be appropriate (or, in certain cases, if it receives an application requesting it to exercise its function), it will follow a procedure known as 'standard procedure' and issue a warning notice. A warning notice is a written statement setting out either why the case team believes that the exercise of the regulator's function(s) may be appropriate, or that the case team has received an application from a third party requesting it to exercise certain functions. The warning notice will attach documents that the case team has obtained that might reasonably be considered to support or undermine the case for the exercise of the function(s). The warning notice is sent to all those parties that the case team believe to be directly affected and these parties are then given a reasonable opportunity to respond. The case is then subject to a further review by the case team and referred to the Determinations Panel if appropriate. The Determinations Panel will then progress the case to a determination. Back to top Special procedure In some cases, the case team may believe that the Determinations Panel needs to exercise a function straightaway because there is an immediate risk to the interests of the members or the assets of a scheme. For example, where there is evidence that the trustees have been dishonest; the regulator may want to appoint a trustee with exclusive powers immediately to safeguard members' benefits or scheme assets. In such cases the ‘special procedure’ will be applied and the case team will refer the matter to the Determinations Panel for a determination as soon as possible. This may mean that the usual steps followed in a standard procedure case may not happen, for example, a warning notice may not be given to the directly affected parties. Where a case has been decided using the special procedure it is necessary for the Determinations Panel to conduct a ‘compulsory review’ as soon as reasonably practicable after the determination is made. Prior to the compulsory review, each party will be sent the papers that the Determinations Panel had before it when it made its determination and be given the opportunity to provide representations to be considered by the Determinations Panel. The Determinations Panel will consider any comments made, along with any relevant new information, when it makes its final decision. At the compulsory review, the Determinations Panel may decide to confirm the original determination, amend it, or substitute a different determination. Back to top The determination The Determinations Panel usually consists of at least two members who sit to consider whether or not to make a determination(s). A quorum is deemed to be two members. After a determination has been made, the parties will be advised of the determination in writing. This notification will explain: what functions the regulator has exercised or will exercise what facts were used to reach the decision the reasons for the decision. Staff Determinations Not all determinations are made by the Determinations Panel. The Staff Determinations procedure describes the actions of the regulator for those functions where the decision whether (including how) to make the determination is made by a member of the regulator's staff. Staff Determinations procedure (PDF, 123kb, 12 pages) Publication The regulator may also choose to publish the determination (but only after a compulsory review in special procedure cases). Back to top Appealing against a determination Any (final) determination made by the Determinations Panel and most determinations under the Staff Determination procedure can be appealed. A party, other than the case team, has 28 days from the date of notification of the decision to make an appeal. An appeal is made to The Upper Tribunal and is called a 'reference'. During the 28 days the regulator is not normally allowed to exercise the function decided at the determination (except in relation to the functions detailed in section 96(6) of the Act all of which can have immediate effect). Back to top The Upper Tribunal The Upper Tribunal is the independent body set up to hear references on determinations, and it issues its own guidance on the form and content of a reference. Find the Upper Tribunal's rules under rules and legislation on the Justice website . The Upper Tribunal may consider any evidence available to it in relation to the subject of the reference. This includes evidence that was not available at the time of the original determination. It will decide whether to: confirm the determination and any order, notice or direction vary or revoke the determination and any order, notice or direction substitute a different determination, order, notice or direction. The regulator must act in accordance with the direction of the Tribunal. 
file_417.txt|
file_50.txt|Complete the declaration on behalf of your clients You can complete the automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) on behalf of your clients. Employers have five months from their staging date to complete their declaration to tell us what they have done to comply with their automatic enrolment duties. The duty to declare lies with the employer, but they are able to authorise someone to do this on their behalf. Our online declaration service allows you to act on behalf of one or multiple employers. Completing a declaration of compliance Find out what your clients need to do to comply with automatic enrolment and how to complete an automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) . Completing your declaration of compliance is compulsory. It may take some time to gather everything you need, so make sure you start well ahead of your deadline. Before you start your client's declaration of compliance you will need to provide specific information outlined in the declaration of compliance checklist (PDF, 110kb, 2 pages) . If you act on behalf of multiple clients, you can add them to your profile when using our automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) online service . Need help on completing the declaration of compliance? For a walk-through video on how to complete an online declaration see our automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) webinar . We've changed the term registration to declaration of compliance We originally used the term 'registration' to be the process for declaring your compliance. This was changed in June 2014 and is explained in declaration of compliance – the new term for registration (PDF, 32kb, 1 page) . Subscribe to news-by-email Subscribe to our news-by-email service – it's a free and easy way to keep up to date with all our developments. You can choose to receive updates on everything or only updates on automatic enrolment. Share this page using: 
file_652.txt|PR13 guide Periodic review 2013 (PR13) guide This section gives a brief overview of the 2013 periodic review (PR13) of Network Rail's outputs and funding for control period 5 (2014-19). At the heart of the 2013 periodic review (PR13) is our assessment of what Network Rail must achieve in the period 2014-19, the funding it required for this, and the incentives needed to encourage delivery and outperformance. The review also looks at how Network Rail should work more closely with train operators, suppliers and others to reduce costs and deliver more for customers. As part of the 2013 periodic review we determined Network Rail's outputs and expenditure separately for England & Wales, and for Scotland. Our objective for the periodic review: To protect the interests of customers and taxpayers by ensuring our determination enables Network Rail and its industry partners to deliver or exceed all the specified outcome and output requirements safely and sustainably, at the most efficient levels possible comparable with the best railways in the world by the end of the control period... Periodic review 2013: Network Rail's plans for the next five years – 2014-19 (Control Period 5) Periodic review 2013: setting the direction As the regulator, it's our responsibility to ensure that Network Rail delivers what the Westminster and Scottish governments want – and provides real value for money for customers and taxpayers. This covers everything from running and maintaining the existing rail network, right up to developing new facilities and services. Every five years, we conduct a periodic review of Network Rail's plans for the next control period. These pages explain: 
file_979.txt|View all our Closed Consultations Latest comments Gillian Dearman : I like the progression that is evident from the KS3 reforms. My initial thoughts are that this...2014-11-03 19:32:56Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Jo Prothero : Looking forward to the new GCSE. Cooking and Nutrition is not a good name, not very academic sou...2014-11-03 17:39:45Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 clare syer : Great specfication, challenging in both practical skills and nutritional knowledge. I think secti...2014-11-03 09:58:19Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Pip Shaw : I read and agree with so many of the above points made by colleagues and peers. What I feel contr...2014-11-02 11:12:08Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Alison Wade : I have to agree with John, however I have heard that in D&T the students will have to study 2...2014-11-02 08:09:12Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Quick links 
file_973.txt|Accessibility - Help using this site Text size To adjust the text size on this site please use the text resizing feature in the banner above (requires javascript) or alter your browser settings. Detailed guidance on how to do this has been published by the BBC , AbilityNet and the Web Accessibility Initiative . Weve summarised the main points below. Internet explorer What to select: View > Text Size; or Keyboard shortcuts: Ctrl++. Firefox What to select: View > Zoom > Zoom in and You can choose to zoom the whole page or text only; or Keyboard shortcuts: Ctrl++. What to select: Select the wrench, scroll to Zoom and choose a setting; or Keyboard shortcuts: Ctrl++. Always check your browsers help feature (press F1) to find out how to get the best from your browser. Colours Again a lot of good content has already been published by the BBC and the Web Accessibility Initiative . If you need a specific colour scheme, again use your browser features to change the colours of all websites. Internet explorer What to select: Tools > Internet Options > Accessibility and check the first 3 options, and Tools > Internet Options > Colours and then choose colour preferences; or Keyboard shortcuts: Alt+T > ALT+O > Alt+E > and check first 3 options,  and Alt+T > ALT+O > Alt + C. Firefox What to select: Tools > Options > Content > Colours > Then choose your preferred colour scheme, uncheck Allow pages to choose their own colours and OK; or Keyboard shortcuts: Alt+T > ALT+O > Right Arrow to Content > Alt+C and through options and then OK. Google chrome What to select: Select the wrench, scroll to Zoom and choose a setting. PDFs To view PDF files on the HSE website use the free Acrobat reader or one of the alternative PDF readers. You can customise colours displayed in PDFs by choosing Edit > Preferences > Accessibility > Replace Document Colors. Then choose a colour scheme that matches your requirements. For more information about PDF accessibility see the Adobe website accessibility section . Keyboard access This site's layout takes into account users who are visually impaired or have difficulties using a mouse. Skip to content and skip to navigation links are provided at the top of each page to enable keyboard users to jump to the content with only a few keystrokes. Tabbing through the pages takes you first through the header, then through the left navigation, then through the content area and finally through the links in the footer. Accessibility statement The ONR website aims to be as accessible as possible and complies with recognised web standards, current legislation and UK Government guidelines regarding accessibility. Standards The site adheres to the Web Accessibility Initiatives Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.0. Wherever possible we aim to achieve all Level A and Level AA requirements. The pages are built using valid and wherever possible semantic XHTML. CSS and Javascript are then applied to add design and behaviour. Those without javascript should still have no trouble accessing all core information. PDFs Most PDF (Portable Document Format) files on this site are tagged to allow basic accessibility. Some older PDFs are not tagged and will be tagged as resources allow, or on request. Images Most images on this website have alternative text that describes their content or function. Images that are purely decorative do not include alternative text. Where an image is part of a text link, text will be present in the context of the link. Some images on the site have poor or incorrect alternative text, we have a plan of action in place to fix this. Links Please note that unless otherwise stated all links will open within the same browser window. All links to PDFs and other nonstandard types are marked with the following icons, using the appropriate alternate text. This includes, but is not limited to: PDF 
file_509.txt|Consultancy spend and external recruitment exceptions Monthly list of requests for exceptions to the freeze on consultancy spend and external recruitment. In May 2010 the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced a set of spending controls, including a freeze on advisory consultancy spend and external recruitment. Any requests for exceptions to this freeze would require sign off by a departmental minister. As ORR is a non-ministerial department, such requests are currently approved by the chief executive, in his capacity as accounting officer*. Details of exceptions to the consultancy and recruitment freeze are reported to our Board every month. Details may be found below. * Prior to May 2011, a special approvals committee carried out this task. Exceptions 
file_802.txt|Complaints handling procedures Complaints handling procedures This webpage provides information on complaints handling procedures aimed at train and station operators and could also be of interest to passengers. Information specifically for passengers is also available. Train and station operators are required by their operating licences to establish and comply with a procedure for handling complaints relating to licensed activities from its customers and potential customers. This procedure is known as the 'complaints handling procedure' (CHP) and is approved and monitored by us. The information provided by complaints, as well as customer feedback more generally, enables operators to identify the root causes of dissatisfaction and take steps to improve the experience of customers. The approval process Approval of CHPs for new franchises or new operators Newly licensed operators or those with new franchise awards must establish and comply with a procedure to handle complaints. Read more about approval of CHPs for new franchises or new operators Annual review of existing CHPs For current operators with an approved CHP we have ended the practice of operators seeking annual re-approval of existing CHPs where no material changes have been made. This was set out in our letter to operators of 15 April 2014 pdf icon PDF, 134 Kb . Approval will be required where material changes to an existing CHP is proposed. Read more about review of existing CHPs Decision letters Once we have given our approval to a CHP we will publish a decision letter. The letter will summarise any issues that were raised during the approval process, note areas of good practice or highlight areas where we feel a licence holder should particularly seek to improve its practices. Monitoring To monitor compliance with CHPs we will: review the regular statistical data on complaints that ORR currently collects and published through the Data portal ; hold regular meetings with Passenger Focus and London TravelWatch to discuss their views and research (such as the NRPS); review additional market research relevant to complaint handling that is produced from time to time; and on occasion we may require additional information from operators, where possible we intend to rely on the information operators' already produce to monitor and evaluate complaints and their procedures. A newly licensed operator, or newly awarded franchise, may have limited experience or data on which to develop its CHP. For this reason, we would expect an operators of a newly approved CHP to review its effectiveness in handling complaints within a suitable period, to allow for changes in light of  experience. These arrangements will be superseded once new guidance and monitoring arrangements are in place, intended for April 2015. Further information 
file_434.txt|
file_381.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_288.txt|
file_689.txt|Published 20 November 2014 Executive summary This is the first Network Rail Monitor of Control Period 5 pdf icon PDF, 289 Kb (CP5) which runs from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019. It provides ORR's assessment of Network Rail's performance over the first half of 2014-15. Safety Network Rail has made good progress in reducing safety risk at level crossings. However, in other areas such as track worker safety there is significant scope for improvement. Track quality also needs to be better managed and Network Rail needs to maintain a focus on wider risks including those arising from fatigue and excessive working hours. Performance and punctuality Network Rail entered CP5 at a lower performance point than anticipated and it put in place a plan to return performance to targeted levels by 31 March 2016. Although it is largely delivering on the plan's milestones, these are not improving performance, which is behind the plan's trajectory. Train cancellations East Coast Mainline performance has been strong – the three long distance operators on this route are all exceeding their cancellations and severe lateness (CaSL) targets. However, performance for other operators is behind plan with 13 out of 18 franchised operators short of their targets for CaSL. Asset management Network Rail has reported delivering less work than it planned to do – both in maintenance and renewals. We are holding the company to account for the impact of its under-delivery on sustainability, and seeking assurance that the lost work will be recovered later in the control period. The quality of Network Rail's asset data needs to improve. Enhancements Network Rail's performance on delivery of its enhancement portfolio has worsened – following a period of relatively successful delivery in CP4. During the first two quarters, 11 out of 44 regulated milestones were missed although the majority of these had low or zero impact on customers. Expenditure and finance Network Rail has underperformed against its budget by £40m (year to date) and forecasts an overspend of £112m for 2014-15. ORR expects the company to underperform the regulatory financial performance measure by around £300m in 2014-15. Data quality Our evidence shows that the quality of data that Network Rail relies upon to plan and manage works on Britain's railways does not meet the required standards in some areas. ORR has written to Network Rail requiring a proposal from the company to address this. Previous Network Rail Monitors 
file_365.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_49.txt|Closing a scheme Assist your clients with their workplace pension schemes Your clients may ask you to help them with the pension schemes they plan to use for automatic enrolment. The three main areas are listed below. Choosing a scheme Many employers will be setting up new schemes and may need your help to identify a qualifying scheme that's right for their business and which also produces a good outcome for its members. An employer's guide to selecting a pension scheme For information on the main areas that your clients should focus on, to ensure they choose a value for money scheme that will deliver good member outcomes, please read an employer’s guide to selecting a good quality pension scheme for automatic enrolment (PDF, 98kb, 10 pages) . An accountant’s guide to pensions scheme selection Accountants responding to client queries about choosing a pension scheme for automatic enrolment can read an accountant's guide to pension scheme selection and automatic enrolment (PDF, 64kb, 7 pages) . Financial adviser’s guide to selecting a pension scheme To help financial advisers deal with queries from their clients about choosing a pension scheme for automatic enrolment please read a financial adviser's guide to selecting a good quality pension scheme for automatic enrolment (PDF, 58kb, 7 pages) . Find out the pay elements that must be included and the lowest possible employer contribution for each worker, in our interactive tool your minimum employer contribution . Enrolment and managing the scheme A specific process must be followed to enrol workers into the chosen scheme. Once active membership has been achieved, there are ongoing responsibilities that you may be involved in, such as ensuring contributions are paid on time and that any opt-out or opt-in notices are processed and accurate records maintained. Employers must also follow the automatic enrolment process for anyone who asks to opt in. For an explanation of the automatic enrolment process, please read our guidance on automatic enrolment . Opting-in and opting-out process For information about opt-in processes and how contractual enrolment fits with the new legislation, read our detailed guidance on opting in, joining and contractual enrolment (PDF, 141kb, 33 pages) . For an overview of the automatic enrolment process, including processing opt outs, see our interactive tool how to automatically enrol your staff . Both the employer and the pension scheme must, by law, keep certain records. For the records that must be kept and for how long, read our detailed guidance on keeping records (PDF, 97kb, 13 pages) . Review existing pension arrangements Clients with existing pension schemes may want to use them for automatic enrolment. These schemes will need to meet certain criteria, which could involve changing the scheme rules or terms and conditions. You’ll need to understand how the new legislation fits with existing pension arrangements, such as salary exchange or contractual enrolment. Does my client’s existing scheme qualify? To help you assess whether an existing DC scheme is a qualifying scheme and whether it can be used for automatic enrolment, please use our interactive tool: does your existing scheme qualify? Use an existing scheme or set up a new system? Our webinar explains qualifying schemes and discusses what you need to consider when deciding to use existing systems or putting new systems in place. It also reviews a pension scheme that qualifies for automatic enrolment. Watch our webinar on implementing automatic enrolment systems and pension schemes . For a summary on the main differences between contractual and automatic enrolment, and how to fit contractual enrolment in with the automatic enrolment duties, read our leaflet on contractual versus automatic enrolment (PDF, 26kb, 3 pages) . There are minimum requirements for schemes to qualify and to be used for automatic enrolment, and details on certification and use of schemes based outside the UK, in our detailed guidance on pension schemes (PDF, 341kb, 38 pages) . Subscribe to news-by-email Subscribe to our news-by-email service – it's a free and easy way to keep up to date with all our developments. You can choose to receive updates on everything or only updates on automatic enrolment. Share this page using: 
file_257.txt|Internet days of action Medicines on the Internet The established way to obtain medicines is from a pharmacist. Increasingly, however, purchases are being made over the internet. If you are thinking about buying what may be a Prescription Only Medicine, we strongly urge you to consult your doctor, rather than purchase the medicine direct from an internet supplier without a prescription. It is important to take great care when buying medicines over the internet, particularly if the medicine concerned would normally only be available from your high street pharmacy. If you you buy Prescription Only Medicines over the internet: they may not have been prescribed by a healthcare professional there may not be checks and controls on the quality and effectiveness of medicines supplied there may be no legal recourse in the event of a problem. In the UK, medicines can be supplied in a number of ways. Some can be bought at supermarkets and convenience stores, some can only be bought in a pharmacy, where advice on their use can be given and some can only be supplied against a prescription, written by a qualified healthcare professional - most often, your doctor.  All medicines have risk and well as benefits. With prescription only medicines, a doctor needs to be involved to assess and manage those risk and benefits. Where can I find out if a medicine is a Prescription Only Medicine? The best way is to check with your retail pharmacist. Should I buy medicines over the Internet? In recent years, there has been an explosion of websites offering medicines for sale via the internet. Many of these websites originate from outside the UK and are therefore not regulated by UK authorities. Buying Prescription Only Medicines from unauthorised sources significantly increases the risk of getting substandard/fake medicines. People who acquire medicines without the benefit of a consultation with an appropriate healthcare professional risk being supplied with medicines that are not safe or not suitable for them to use. Prescription Only Medicines should only be taken in consultation with a healthcare professional. This is particularly important when you are already taking other medicines at the same time, because interactions between medicines may cause side effects. In addition any medicines, whether prescription only or not, if purchased over the internet may not meet UK regulatory and quality standards. They may be past their ‘sell-by date’ in which case their effectiveness will be reduced. Download the Fake Medicine information leaflet for more information on the risks of buying medicines online and who to go to for further advice. If purchases are made over the internet, and as is often the case, sourced from outside the UK, patients have no legal or other recourse if the products are not effective or prove to be harmful. The General Pharmaceutical Council has introduced a new logo which will be seen on the front page of participating online pharmacy sites. This will help people identify whether a website offering to sell medicines or provide other pharmacy services is connected to a registered pharmacy. By clicking on the logo, visitors are linked to a page on the GPhC website where they can make checks to ensure the site is a registered pharmacy. Further information on the logo and its use can be found on the website of the General Pharmaceutical Council (external link). Internet pharmacy is an area of rapid growth and it is recognised that the increased provision of internet pharmacy services undoubtedly improves patient access and choice of pharmacy services, the nature of the world wide web is such that some medicines are now readily available from online suppliers who have no professional qualifications or healthcare expertise. The policy of the RPSGB is that the public benefit from the opportunity for advice from a pharmacist when they have a medicine supplied. The General Pharmaceutical Council’s current conditions for use of the internet logo require that pharmacy websites display: the name of the owner of the business the address of the pharmacy at which the business is conducted the name of the superintendent pharmacist where applicable details of how to confirm the registration status of the pharmacy and pharmacist. Investigation into SPAM emails promotion Prescription Only Medicines In March 2011 a report was launched that revealed the findings of a unique investigation into the danger to unsuspecting members of the public of bypassing the healthcare system and falling for email offers advertising Prescription Only Medicines. The findings showed that SPAM emails promoting Prescription Only Medicines not only encourages a culture of self-diagnosis and self-medication for conditions that should be checked by a doctor, but also puts people’s health and potentially lives at risk. The investigation revealed a multitude of dangers: Health – products containing banned, untested, or undeclared ingredients, products containing too much or too little active ingredient, with no information supplied on dosage or side effects, together with allowing Prescription Only Medicines to be sold without a proper consultation or prescription provided. Financial – potential for credit card cloning and other fraudulent activities, as well as products being sold at a much higher price than they would cost from a high street pharmacy. Personal – viruses were contracted from spam emails and the website they advertised, infecting PCs in an attempt to copy contact details for further ‘spamming’. 
file_455.txt|The accession to COTIF is currently being implemented. Third Railway Package The European Commission adopted a third package of measures on 26 September 2007, to open up international passenger services to competition within the EU by 2010. It consists of: Directive 2007/58/EC on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure: envisages opening the market for international passenger services to competition from 1 January 2010; Directive 2007/59/EC on the certification of train drivers operating locomotives and trains on the railway system in the community: lays down conditions and procedures for the certification of train crews operating locomotives and trains; and Regulation 1371/2007 on rail passengers' rights and obligations: ensures basic rights for passengers, for example, with regard to insurance, ticketing, and for passengers with reduced mobility. How the third package was implemented Directive 2007/58/EC was implemented in June 2009 by: ORR has published guidance on the assessment of new international passenger services pdf icon PDF, 345 Kb which sets out how we would apply the 'principal purpose' and 'economic equilibrium' tests as provided for in the Regulations. Directive 2007/59/EC was implemented in March 2010 by The Train Driving Licences and Certificates Regulations 2010 and Regulation 1371/2007 is implemented through The Rail Passengers' Right and Obligations Regulations 2010, effective from 25 June 2010. Regulation 1371/2007 entered into force on 3 December 2009, in full for international passenger services but only in respect of the core provisions for domestic services and was implemented through SI 2009/2970 . Recast of the first railway package On 17 September 2010 the European Commission adopted a draft proposal to amend the First Railway Package directives. The recast aimed to simplify and consolidate the rules by merging three directives and their amendments into a single text. In addition, the recast seeks to clarify existing provisions and tackle key problem areas which have been identified in the market over the last ten years, including: Clear rules for the funding and management of infrastructure Access to rail-related facilities (depots, maintenance etc.) Independence and competence of regulatory bodies The Recast  (Directive 2012/34/EC ) was finalised in November 2012, and must be implemented in domestic UK law by April 2015. Fourth Railway Package In February 2013 The Commission unveiled proposals for the "Fourth Package". This package is intended as the 'final step' towards the legal framework for a single European area. It has several separate legislative measures, covering: Infrastructure governance and funding Competitive tendering of rail PSO contracts Technical authorisation The role of the European Rail Agency Negotiations are likely to continue through 2014. Other relevant EU legislation 
file_386.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_232.txt|All herbal safety warnings and alerts 19 August 2013 The MHRA has recently been made aware of several unlicensed  herbal products which have been found to contain heavy metals. Product Names: Chandraprabha Vati Product Description: The first warning relates to an unlicensed Traditional Herbal Medicine (TCM) Bak Foong Pills, containing lead, which is being prescribed by TCM practitioners for relieving menstrual discomfort. The pills were recalled after samples were found to contain 1.8 and 2.3 times the limit permitted by the Hong Kong Government. Bak Foong Pills are manufactured in Hong Kong by Hong Kong Medicine Manufactory. The second warning relates to a TCM, Hairegenerator, containing excessive mercury, prescribed by TCM practitioners for the treatment of hair loss. Hairegenerator was recalled after a sample was found to contain 11 times the level of mercury permitted by the Hong Kong Government. Hairegenerator is manufactured by Hang Cheong Lung Pharmaceutical Limited (HCL). Initial investigations by the Hong Kong Department of Health revealed that HCL supplied herbal ingredients to another licensed manufacturer, Luen Wing Chinese Medicine Manufacture Company Limited (Luen Wing), to manufacture Hairegenerator. Hairegenerator would then be returned to HCL for packaging before its distribution to the local market. The Swedish National Food Agency (SNFA) reported that it had found “extremely high” levels of arsenic in products going by a variety of names including, Niu-Huang Chieh-tu-pien, and Indian names, Divya Kaishore Guggul and Chandraprabha Vati. The products are used to treat mumps, sore throat, tonsillitis, toothache, skin infections, anorexia and fever in infants. All the above are unlicensed products and as such have not been authorised for sale in the UK. However, these and similar products are widely available on the internet and the public should exercise caution when purchasing unlicensed products as standards can vary widely and they have not been assessed by the MHRA for safety and quality puposes. Possible side effects The adulteration of ethnic medicines with heavy metals is a significant international problem. The Agency has received several reports of the use of, mercury, lead and arsenic in unlicensed Ayurvedic or traditional Chinese medicines. The inclusion of these metals, or salts containing them, pose a serious risk to public health. Mercury - Inorganic mercuric salts can cause severe nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhoea, kidney damage and failure and potential nervous system effects. Arsenic - can cause severe nausea, vomiting, skin disorders, haemorrhagic gastroenteritis, cardiac arrhythmias, anaemia, jaundice, peripheral neuropathy, convulsions and paralysis. Lead - Can cause abdominal pain, vomiting, kidney damage, peripheral neuropathy, in coordination, impairment of mental function, convulsions and coma. Reporting side effects If you have taken any of these products and think you may be experiencing side-effects, please contact your doctor for advice. Take this information with you to help your doctor understand the situation. Please also help us gather more information on this issue by submitting a Yellow Card report . Page last modified: 		 		19 August 2013 
file_299.txt|Statistical releases Statistical releases From September 2013, we publish regular commentary on rail statistics under eight themes – including performance and safety. These releases are designed to help the user interpret the data and are accredited National Statistics. As part of our commitment to improving the quality of our statistics in line with requirements for National Statistics accreditation, we are publishing themed statistical releases from September 2013. These releases will provide contextual commentary on statistics across a common topic and will aid the user in the interpretation of the data. Data tables will also be available via the Data portal . The statistical releases will be published under eight themes. Here you can access the latest publication for each theme: Passenger and freight rail performance Public performance measure (PPM), freight performance measure (FPM) and cancellations and significant lateness (CaSL). Latest statistical release: Download the Passenger and freight rail performance statistical release 2014-15 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 233 Kb Published 13 November 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Passenger and freight rail performance quality report pdf icon PDF, 228 Kb . Passenger rail usage Passenger kilometres, passenger journeys, passenger revenue and timetabled train kilometres (TTKM). Latest statistical release: Download the Passenger rail usage statistical release 2014-15 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 630 Kb Published 11 December 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Passenger rail usage quality report pdf icon PDF, 385 Kb . Freight rail usage Freight moved, freight lifted, normalised freight delay, freight market indicators. Latest statistical release: Download the Freight rail usage statistical release 2014-15 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 431 Kb Published 27 November 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Freight rail usage quality report pdf icon PDF, 159 Kb . Passenger rail service satisfaction Complaints, appeals and National Rail Enquiries (NRE) telephone service. Latest statistical release: Download the Passenger rail service satisfaction statistical release 2014-15 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 444 Kb Published 18 December 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Passenger rail service satisfaction quality report pdf icon PDF, 533 Kb . Regional usage Regional Usage Profiles (Passenger Journeys) for each Region of Great Britain. Latest statistical release: Download the Regional usage profiles statistical release 2012-13 pdf icon PDF, 577 Kb Published 24 April 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Regional Usage Profiles quality report pdf icon PDF, 355 Kb . Key safety statistics Key safety facts, passenger key safety facts, public key safety facts, workforce key safety facts and train accidents key facts. Latest statistical release: Download the Safety key statistics 2013-14 annual statistical release pdf icon PDF, 536 Kb Published 25 September 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Key safety statistics quality report pdf icon PDF, 398 Kb Rail finance Government support to the rail industry, rail fares index and private investment. Latest statistical release: Download the Rail finance 2013-14 annual statistical release pdf icon PDF, 601 Kb Published 21 August 2014. Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Rail finance quality report pdf icon PDF, 341 Kb Rail infrastructure, assets and environment Infrastructure on the railways, average age of rolling stock and sustainable development. Latest statistical release: Further information about the data and quality dimensions can be accessed in the Rail infrastructure, assets and environment quality report pdf icon PDF, 381 Kb The regional usage, key safety statistics, rail finance and rail infrastructure, assets and environmental statistical releases will be published annually. All other statistical releases will be published quarterly. All of the quarterly statistical releases have been badged as National Statistics, in accordance with the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007. For further information on the Code of Practice and National Statistics accreditation, please visit the UK Statistics Authority. To see when we publish the statistical releases and data tables, please visit our publications schedule . Please contact us for more information. Last updated - 18 December 2014 
file_476.txt|Department of Regional Development, Northern Ireland Department of Regional Development, Northern Ireland The Department for Regional Development, Northern Ireland (DRDNI) provides a capital grant to Translink for Northern Ireland Railways to operate rail services. The funding helps maintain and develop the rail infrastructure, which includes track, stations, bridges, level crossings etc, and rolling stock, which includes trains, equipment and associated plant machinery. DRDNI has responsibilities for transport strategy in Northern Ireland. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_385.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_693.txt|Annex to the 2013 report Annual efficiency and finance assessment of Network Rail 2013 - Annex to the report This annex provides information about Network Rail's historic income, expenditure and efficiency. The information is for Great Britain and where possible England & Wales and Scotland separately. More detail about Network Rail and Railtrack's income and expenditure can be found in its regulatory accounts, which are available on Network Rail's website . Chart A1: OMR expenditure from 1995-96 to 2012-13 Great Britain Tables A1, A2 and A3 provide information about Network Rail's expenditure since 2002-03 and Railtrack's in 2001-02. Table A1: Historic expenditure for Great Britain £m 2012-13 prices 
file_896.txt|Train volumes Safety risk We also publish regular commentary on rail statistics under eight themes – including performance and safety. These releases are designed to help the user interpret the data and are accredited National Statistics We also publish themed quality reports which pull together the key qualitative information on relevance, accuracy and reliability, timeliness and punctuality, accessibility and clarity and coherence and comparability. To see when we publish the statistical releases, please visit our publications schedule . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_475.txt|Welsh Government Welsh Government The Railways Act 2005 transferred most of the functions of the Strategic Rail Authority to the Secretary of State for Transport in the UK Government. The Act made provision for the National Assembly for Wales to be a joint signatory with the Secretary of State for Transport to the Wales and Borders Franchise for train services operating within Wales. The Welsh Government specifies and monitors the train passenger franchise in Wales. Under the Government of Wales Act the Welsh Government is able to: develop and fund infrastructure enhancement schemes; develop new rail passenger services; invest in improving the journey experience for rail users; and fund rail freight improvement schemes through Freight Facility Grant (FFG). Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_397.txt|New to health and safety? COSHH and the catering industry - key messages Having your hands wet for a long time or having them frequently wet during the day can irritate your skin leading to dermatitis. Some foods and ingredients in cleaning products can cause skin allergies and asthma. Cooking fumes contain oil mists, irritating substances, smoke and carbon monoxide from gas-fired equipment. While  there is not any evidence for an increased risk of cancer from cooking fumes, some substances in the fumes can cause cancer. There are simple things you can do to prevent ill health. Preventing exposure to harmful substances usually means a combination of some of the following controls: Use good work techniques that avoid or minimise contact with harmful substances and minimise leaks and spills. Store cleaning products safely. Keep the workplace well ventilated. For some tasks, you may also need to provide personal protective equipment like protective gloves, aprons and eye  protection (gloves should be food grade for food handling tasks). Practice good hand care â€“ remove contamination promptly, wash hands properly, dry thoroughly and use skin creams regularly (these should be fragrance free and nut oil free to be food compatible). Provide an extractor hood or canopy over cooking appliances. The controls you need will depend on the task. Click the links below for more specific information. 
file_627.txt|This page provides links to guidance on using level crossings safely . In all cases, the best way to reduce risk is to use the crossing safely and to follow any instructions that are displayed at the crossing. We have recently worked with Network Rail and the Heritage Railway Association to produce improved guidance for users of level crossings. The guidance is based on the user – pedestrian, driver, cyclist or horse rider - rather than the type of level crossing they may come across as in previous user guidance. We also have specific guidance for using level crossings on farms pdf icon PDF, 30 Kb and for businesses pdf icon PDF, 65 Kb whose employees may need to cross the railway to make sure that they recognise and manage the risks. Last updated - 28 April 2014 
file_114.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Pension scams Pension scams are on the increase in the UK. Check the facts before you make an irreversible decision. A lifetime's savings can be lost in a moment. What's a pension scam? Pension scams are enticing savers by claiming to help them access their pension before age 55 or that people can already take more than 25% of their pension as cash. For most people the offers will be bogus and victims will lose most, if not all, of their savings. Only in rare cases – like terminal illness – can pension scheme members take their pension before age 55. It remains the law that pension scheme members can only take up to 25% of their pension savings as a cash lump sum. Although this may change in the future it's important that members aren't fooled into thinking that is the law today. Pension scheme members who agree to transfer may lose all their savings and may still be subject to tax charges of over half their transfer value for taking an 'unauthorised payment'. Business advisers Use our action pack to find out more about pension scams and find resources you can send to warn members during transfers. Information for pensions professionals Trustees Use our action pack to find out more about pension scams and resources you can use when communicating to members. Information for trustees Individuals Find out what to do if you're a pension scheme member and you think you're being targeted by a pension scam. 
file_905.txt|ORR archived National rail trends publications ORR archived National rail trends publications The following National Rail Trends (NRT) publications were released by us before September 2010. National Rail Trends 2008-2009 Q1 pdf icon PDF, 738 Kb Published 23 Oct 2008 National rail trends 2007-2008 Yearbook - Revised to include Section 7c tables - Journeys to/from/within each county/unitary authority 2006-07 pdf icon PDF, 1,448 Kb Published 10 September 2008 The 2007-08 yearbook includes  an update of rail usage and performance data. The data are quarterly and/or annual and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. National Rail Trends 2007-2008 Q3 pdf icon PDF, 335 Kb Published 27 March 2008 The 2007-08 quarter 3 edition of National Rail Trends includes an update of rail usage and performance data. The data are quarterly and/or annual  and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. National Rail Trends 2007-2008 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 718 Kb Published 13 December 2007 The 2007-08 quarter 2 edition of National Rail Trends includes an update of rail usage and performance data. The data are quarterly and/or  annual and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. National Rail Trends 2007-2008 Q1 pdf icon PDF, 773 Kb Published 18 October 2007 The 2007-08 quarter 1 edition of National Rail Trends includes an update of rail usage and performance data. The data are quarterly and/or  annual and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. National rail trends yearbook 2006-07 - including revised chapters 5 & 8 pdf icon PDF, 1,761 Kb Published 6 September 2007 This edition of National Rail Trends covers the annual period April 2006-March 2007; as well  as the quarterly period, January-March quarter four (Q4) of the financial year 2006-07. The data are quarterly and annual and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. National Rail Trends 2006-2007 Q3 pdf icon PDF, 1,045 Kb Published 29 March 2007 The 2006-07 quarter 3 edition of National Rail Trends includes an update of rail usage and performance data. The data are quarterly and/or  annual and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. The data are available in both pdf and spreadsheet format. National Rail Trends 2006-2007 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 1,082 Kb Published 19 December 2006 The 2006-07 quarter 2 edition of National Rail Trends includes an update of rail usage and performance data. The data are quarterly and/or  annual and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. The data are available in both pdf and spreadsheet format. National Rail Trends 2006-2007 Q1 pdf icon PDF, 1,373 Kb Published 2 October 2006 The 2006-07 quarter 1 edition of National Rail Trends includes an update of rail usage and performance data. The data are quarterly  and/or annual and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. The data are available in both pdf and spreadsheet format. National Rail Trends 2005-2006 Yearbook pdf icon PDF, 2,728 Kb Published 5 July 2006 This edition of National Rail Trends covers the annual period April 2005-March 2006; as well as the quarterly period, January-March quarter  four (Q4) of the financial year 2005-06; and includes an update of rail usage and performance data. The data are quarterly and annual and should always be used in conjunction with the notes and definitions. National Rail Trends 2005-2006 Q3 pdf icon PDF, 192 Kb Published 24 March 2006 This edition of National Rail Trends covers the period 1 October 2005 to 31 December 2005. It provides trend data on a range of industry-wide  indicators including key figures on rail usage and freight. National Rail Trends 2005-2006 Q2 pdf icon PDF, 181 Kb Published 19 December 2005 This edition covers July - September (quarter 2) of the financial year 2005-2006. The quarterly public performance measure (PPM) figure for  quarter 2 is 87% (see notes to editors 4) an increase of just under 4 percentage points from the same quarter the previous year. The national moving annual average for PPM at the end of September 2005 was 85.3%, 1 percentage point up on the year to June 2005. National Rail Trends 2005-2006 Q1 pdf icon PDF, 162 Kb Published 30 September 2005 This edition of National Rail Trends covers the period 1 April 2005 to 30 June 2005. It provides trend data on a range of industry-wide indicators  including key figures on rail usage and freight. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_934.txt|Regulator publishes Network Rail’s efficiency and financial assessment report Regulator publishes Network Rail’s efficiency and financial assessment report 1 October 2014 The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) today published its assessment of Network Rail's efficiency and financial performance from 2009-2014 (control period 4, CP4). The report (PDF) highlights that: Network Rail has implemented a number of initiatives to reduce its costs of operating, maintaining and renewing the national rail infrastructure by 15.5% in CP4. This work represents a positive outcome for the company's funders, however, the 15.5% efficiency savings reported were 8.0 percentage points lower than the 23.5% efficiency savings that Network Rail agreed to deliver. The lower efficiency was mainly due to additional costs incurred as Network Rail undertook more work towards the end of the control period to improve train punctuality and reliability. In CP4, Network Rail spent £1.2bn more on operating, maintaining and renewing the network, Schedule 4 & 8 costs and financing costs than assumed in our determination of Network Rail's funding for CP4. It also spent an additional £1.4bn on enhancements to the network than assumed in its funding settlement. This higher enhancements expenditure was mostly due to additional projects that were not included in the CP4 funding settlement but that were later requested by governments. The efficiency shortfall means that Network Rail now faces a greater challenge to deliver the further 19.4% efficiency savings on operations, maintenance and renewals that the company has been funded to deliver by 2019. Network Rail's financial performance in Scotland was better than Great Britain as a whole and it delivered the majority of its required outputs for Scotland. To read the report in full visit: http://orr.gov.uk/what-and-how-we-regulate/regulation-of-network-rail/monitoring-performance/efficiency-and-finance-assessment 
file_310.txt|Your browser does not support iframes. Export and Save 
file_947.txt|Skip to content Skip to navigation Office for Nuclear Regulation This website uses non-intrusive cookies to improve your user experience. You can visit our cookie privacy page for more information. What we do ONR has responsibility for regulating safety and security at 40 various nuclear licensed sites in the UK. This page provides more information about the various work of ONR. Free email bulletin Receive the latest news and information on nuclear issues from ONR in a free regular email bulletin. E-mail address: 
file_715.txt|Overruns documentation Overruns documentation On 13 May 2008, we imposed a penalty of £14m on Network Rail because of systemic weaknesses in Network Rail's planning and execution of engineering work which represented a serious and continuing breach of its licence. These problems were exposed in our investigation into the overruns into the New Year. 
file_725.txt|The HS1 Network Code The HS1 Network Code This page contains information on the High Speed 1 (HS1) Network Code, which is a set of rules for the day-to-day running of the HS1 network. The HS1 Network Code is updated from time to time to take account of current circumstances. You are advised to check that you are using the latest version, which is available on HS1's website . The High Speed 1 Network Code Part C of the HS1 Network Code provides processes by which the code can be modified. condition C2, which provides a process whereby HS1 or a train operator can propose changes; and condition C3, which provides the ORR with a right to propose changes. Recent modifications 
file_684.txt|PR08 notices Periodic review 2008 (PR08) notices This page sets out the legal notices relating to the implementation of the 2008 periodic review (PR08). 
file_414.txt|Standing Committee for the Study of Scientific and Technical Information on Standardization (ISO) INFOTERRA International Referral System for Sources of Environmental Information (UN) INIEX Institut National des Industries Extractives (Belgium) INIS International Nuclear Information Service (IAEA) INM Institute of Naval Medicine (Royal Navy) INPACT Institut pour l'Amelioration des Conditions de Travail (France) INPO Institute of Nuclear Power Operations INRS Institut National de Recherche et de Securite (France) INSEAD Institut Europeen d'Administration des Affaires INSHT Instituto Nacional de Seguridad e Higiene en el Trabajo (Spain) INTERTANKO International Association of Independent Tanker Owners INTEREP * HSE and Information Services' computerised database of bibliographic references to confidential and unpublished documents on health and safety at work. Restricted to HSE staff INTEREX * HSE Information Services computerised database of exchange agreements with organisations in the UK and abroad IO 
file_437.txt|Turkish and English translated leaflets Türkçe Broşürler 
file_880.txt|New contracts (section 17 and 18) New contracts (section 17 and 18) Updated consultation (including Stevenage):consultationThis page contains all current applications we are considering for new, agreed contracts (section 18 of the Railways Act 1993) and new, disputed contracts (section 17 of the Act). When we have made our decision, the information held in the current application section is moved into the relevant decisions section . In line with the Industry code of practice (see Annex A of our criteria and procedures document ), Network Rail is responsible for consulting on most proposed new contracts and amendments. Accordingly, please check Network Rail's consultation webpages (select Track Access) as well as our own when looking for details of current consultations. TOC / FOC 
file_485.txt|Railway Industry Health and Safety Advisory Committee Railway Industry Health and Safety Advisory Committee The Railway Industry Health and Safety Advisory Committee (RIHSAC, previously known as RIAC) was established in 1978 by the Health and Safety Commission. It provides advice to us on railway health and safety, exchanges information, comments on proposed new regulations and guidance and works to progress health and safety issues and other related developments within the industry. We are reviewing its effectiveness and terms of reference. It meets three times a year and minutes are produced. RIHSAC representation RIHSAC has wide representation and includes representatives of employers, employees, passengers, and government bodies. Its current membership is as follows: Associated Society of Locomotive Engineers and Firemen (ASLEF) Association of Train Operating Companies (ATOC) British Transport Police (BTP) (observer) Confederation of Passenger Transport (CPT) Department for Regional Development Northern Ireland (DRDNI) (observer) Department for Transport (DfT) (observer) Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee (DPTAC) rail working group chair Heritage Railway Association 
file_388.txt|Science, engineering and research Nanotechnology Nanotechnology is a word used to describe a wide variety of different technologies and materials that share one thing in common - their very small size. Because of the wide range of technologies it is more correct to refer to the field of nanotechnologies. 
file_993.txt|Ofqual Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 3.18The DfE is consulting on the content for GCSEs in design and technology. 15 Proposed assessment arrangements 3.19In current GCSEs in design and technology 60 per cent of the assessment is non-exam assessment. 3.20The new content, which requires students to design and make products and prototypes, could not be validly assessed by exam alone. Non-exam assessment will allow for the direct assessment of the student’s ability to apply knowledge, understanding and skills as part of the iterative design process of exploring, creating and evaluating, over an extended period of time. A proportion of non-exam assessment marks will be awarded for the products and prototypes that students design and make. 3.21The draft content places greater emphasis on the knowledge and understanding requirements for this subject than is the case currently. We therefore propose that non-exam assessment should account for 50 per cent of the marks for new GCSEs in design and technology. This is a small reduction when compared with current qualifications that we think reflects the balance between the knowledge, understanding and skills required to design and make products and prototypes set out in the subject content. Tiering 3.22Currently GCSEs in design and technology are not tiered. We propose that the new GCSEs in design and technology should not be tiered either. Proposed assessment objectives 3.23The proposed assessment objectives are clearer than the current ones for the subject. We propose the following assessment objectives and weightings: Assessment objectives 
file_165.txt|Use the Coronavirus Yellow Card reporting site to report suspected side effects to medicines and vaccines or medical device and diagnostic  adverse incidents used in coronavirus treatment Already Registered? 
file_870.txt|Implementing PR13 - capacity charge End of consultation: 4 Nov 2013 This consultation sets out the specific changes to track access agreements that we proposed to make to implement our capacity charge policy options. The options were consulted on over the course of the summer and are explained in our consultation letter. End of consultation: 1 Nov 2013 A formal statutory consultation on our updated proposed changes to conditions in Network Rail's network licence. Implementing the EC4T cost reconciliation End of consultation: 31 Oct 2013 This was a consultation on the principles of and changes to the contractual wording for the cost reconciliation (or "cost wash-up") for charges for electric current for traction (EC4T) as part of the 2013 periodic review (PR13). The aim of the proposed changes to the cost reconciliation formula was to better reflect tariff structure, in particular to allow EC4T delivery charges to be reconciled by electricity supply tariff area (ESTA). Implementing PR13 - charter operators End of consultation: 25 Oct 2013 This consultation set out the specific changes we proposed to make to charter track access agreements to implement our 2013 periodic review (PR13). These reflected the proposed decisions in our draft conclusions on structure of charges and Schedule 8 performance regime for charter operators, issued in September 2013. Capacity charge for freight operators End of consultation: 14 Oct 2013 This consultation set out our proposed conclusions for the capacity charge for freight operators in control period 5 (CP5), with reference to Rail Delivery Group (RDG)'s proposal. End of consultation: 30 Sep 2013 A consultation on our further thinking on the capacity charge, with a refinement of our proposed option. Draft conclusions on structure of charges and Schedule 8 performance regime for charter operators End of consultation: 20 Sep 2013 This consultation set out our draft conclusions in relation to charter operators as part of our 2013 periodic review (PR13), in respect of the structure of charges and performance regime. Draft determination End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 Our draft determination set out our package of overall decisions on the 2013 periodic review (PR13) for consultation. It covered the outputs that Network Rail must deliver, the efficient cost of delivering those outputs, and the access charges the company can levy on train operators for using its network to recover those costs. Implementing PR13 End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 This consultation set out the specific changes we proposed to make to track and station access agreements and Network Rail's network licence to implement our 2013 periodic review (PR13). Consultative letter expanding on the discussion of the capacity charge End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 This letter expanded on the discussion of the capacity charge in chapter 16 of ORR's draft determination of Network Rail's outputs and funding and, in particular, on the proposal put forward by the Rail Freight Operators' Association (RFOA). Draft exemption for the placing on the market of rail vehicles and components which contain asbestos End of consultation: 19 Aug 2013 A consultation on a draft exemption to allow the placing on the market of asbestos-containing railway vehicles, and asbestos-containing components of railway vehicles. End of consultation: 9 Aug 2013 This consultation sought views on possible changes in on-rail competition. End of consultation: 2 Aug 2013 A consultation on approving operators' complaints procedures and disabled policies. End of consultation: 29 Jul 2013 Consultation on our approach to our duties under the Localism Act 2011. Contingency planning for PR13 implementation End of consultation: 17 May 2013 This consultation sought the views of Network Rail and train operators on our proposed contingency plan in the event that there is a delay to the formal implementation of the 2013 periodic review (PR13). Electricity for traction charges for control period 5 End of consultation: 8 May 2013 This consultation covered charges for electric current for traction (EC4T), including assumed levels of transmission losses for CP5 and how we proposed to reform the volume wash-up. End of consultation: 23 Apr 2013 A consultation on the general approval (stations) and general approval (depots) 2010 . The first consultation by ORR on the 2014 periodic review of HS1 Ltd (PR14) End of consultation: 16 Apr 2013 This consultation set out the respective roles and objectives of the relevant parties, as well as the legal and contractual basis for our periodic review of High Speed 1 (HS1). Freight specific charge for biomass End of consultation: 28 Mar 2013 This consultation set out our proposals for levying a freight specific charge on biomass. A freight specific charge balances payments for freight costs more fairly between businesses, taxpayers and passengers, recognising the wider benefits that rail freight brings against the costs of subsidising rail freight that would not otherwise travel by road. 
file_835.txt|Complaints about ORR Complaints about ORR We aim to provide an efficient and helpful service to those who contact us for information on railway issues within the targets that the office has set. However, should you feel unhappy with the standard of service you have received, you should put your complaint in writing to the senior executive in the customer correspondence team. Your complaint will be acknowledged and forwarded to the relevant ORR director to investigate your complaint. We aim to respond and investigate such complaints within 20 working days. If it becomes apparent that our investigation will take longer, we will inform you at the earliest opportunity. Should you remain dissatisfied with our response, you may contact the Parliamentary Ombudsman to re-investigate the concerns you have raised. Ultimately, it is the duty of the Parliamentary Ombudsman to ensure that public bodies comply with the terms of their complaints handling procedure, and ensure that customers receive the service to which they are entitled. Last updated - 31 October 2014 
file_584.txt|Occupational Health Railway Management Maturity Model Occupational Health and the Railway Management Maturity Model (RM3) This page explains how the Railway Management Maturity Model (RM3) can be used to measure risk management of occupational health. RM3 can be used to assess the maturity of health risk management and the effectiveness of the underlying management systems. We explain below how this can be achieved and give guidance on how this should be done. We have made it clear throughout the RM3 that the criteria apply to health and safety management systems and that occupational health issues should be considered alongside safety issues when looking for excellence in risk management. Some of our Inspectors have used the RM3 format to successfully explore the maturity of dutyholders' management of health risks eg manual handling within Merseyrail. However, we have considered that the RM3 maturity model could be supplemented with an additional Planning and Implementing Section risk control system (RCS) focussing on health risk control. Unlike the other elements which will form parts of a systematic approach to management, the risk control systems elements focus on managing a specific risk to establish the effectiveness of the underlying system. For example a risk control system for emergency preparedness (RCS5 in RM3) will require leadership, policy, consultation, competence, targets, risk assessment, monitoring, audit and review, so an inspection of RCS5 should also provide evidence against several other RM3 criteria. The same is true for managing occupational health. Including the RCS6 criterion raises the profile of occupational health and provides a framework for using it as a way to assess overall health and safety management system maturity using RM3. RM3 guidance Guidance, (in the form of key issues agendas) is provided for common occupational health topics to underpin the use of RCS6. Demonstrating excellence in occupational ill-health management will also require high performance in other RM3 criteria pdf icon PDF, 413 Kb eg: SP1, SP2 – leaders should clearly recognise the importance of occupational health and develop policies to control occupational health risks SP3 – occupational health performance should be reported as part of the governance arrangements OP1 – workers should be involved in deciding on control measures such as PPE and systems of work OP2 – all involved in the RCS should be competent to carry out their roles and when specialist help is needed care should be taken to ensure that the right competencies are brought in OC1, OC2 – responsibilities within the RCS should be clear, allocated and accepted and those with responsibilities held accountable OC4, OC5 – the specialist nature of some occupational health issues means that clear communication is needed inside and between organisations to ensure that the risks are managed OC7 –some health records are legally required to be kept for long periods, the arrangements should take this into account PI1 – risk assessments should explicitly include occupational ill-health risks PI2 – specific targets should be set to ensure that risk from occupational ill-health is being controlled MRA1, MRA2, MRA4, MRA5 – the RCS for management of occupational health should include appropriate monitoring arrangements, audit, review and if necessary corrective action to ensure it is delivering management of risks from occupational ill-health Further information The risk control system (RCS) element will be incorporated into the revised RM3 due for publication late 2014. Prior to this inclusion, read the criteria and introductory paragraphs for RCS6 pdf icon PDF, 132 Kb Last updated - 16 July 2014 
file_203.txt|or press.office@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Out-of-hours 07770 446 189 The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) took action to close down more than 1,600 websites illegally advertising and selling medicines last year. Many of the medicines offered were falsified, counterfeit or unlicensed. Enforcement officers also seized medicines with a value in excess of £3 million. These included quantities of erectile dysfunction medicines, slimming products, as well as powerful and often misused drugs like sleeping pills and antidepressants. The majority of packages seized originated in India and China. Additionally, within the last year nearly 19,000 online videos were removed for illegally advertising medicines as part of MHRA’s continuing collaboration with social media and auction sites such as YouTube, Amazon and eBay to identify and take action against illegal operators. MHRA also continues to work with internet domain registries, credit card companies and Interpol to take down websites and close their accounts. MHRA’s Head of Enforcement, Alastair Jeffrey said: “The action we have taken to close down websites and seize medicines demonstrates our total commitment to tacking this dangerous and illegal trade and protect patients. “Criminals involved in the supply of medicines have no interest in your health; it is simply your money they want. “Buying medicines online is a risk, may websites operate outside the legal requirements and you have no idea what you are getting and how it will affect you. You are gambling with your health “If you are ill and need treatment, a visit to your GP is the best course of action. We recommend prescription and pharmacy medicines are obtained from a legitimate high street or online pharmacy.” Notes to Editor MHRA is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in the UK by ensuring they work and are acceptably safe. All our work is underpinned by robust and fact-based judgements to ensure that the benefits justify any risks. MHRA is a centre of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency which also includes the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). The MHRA is an executive agency of the Department of Health. www.mhra.gov.uk Download documents: 
file_99.txt|Detailed guidance Key points Give members the option of selecting a retirement income product (eg an annuity) from an insurance company of their choice. Set up a process that enables you to communicate information about choosing the most appropriate retirement options. Support members by providing access to an adviser or annuity broker, or provide information to help members make their own decisions. Open market option You must make members aware of the open market option at least four months before their expected retirement date. This means giving members the option of selecting an annuity from an insurance company of their choice and one other than they saved with. Back to top Retirement process Members of your defined contribution (DC) scheme need to choose the right options at retirement to receive the best outcome from their pension savings. However, many members will have low levels of engagement and knowledge about their pension savings. You should have a retirement process that helps your members to receive a good outcome from their pension savings. Your process should ensure you start communicating with members a number of years before they retire. Make sure you consider: deferred and active members members with small and large pots members with multiple pots members choosing to retire at different ages, including those retiring in difficult circumstances, such as ill health. Your process should set out the key activities, timeframes and who is responsible for them. It could include the following stages: ensure the member understands retirement ensure the member understands the different ways to take retirement income ensure the member understands how to buy products implement member’s decisions review the retirement process and monitor outcomes. If a member decides to purchase an annuity on the open market, the rates are generally only held for very short periods so any delays can lead to losses. Make sure your process enables you to act without delay and that you make members aware that they need to act promptly. Back to top Types of support There are two main types of support that you can provide members as they approach retirement. You can appoint a financial adviser or annuity broker to advise members before they make decisions. Alternatively, you and others involved with administration of the scheme can provide information so that members make their own decisions. You may wish to refer members to information from organisations such as the Money Advice Service to help them make their decisions. Your pension: it’s time to choose is a useful guide from the Money Advice Service for DC scheme members who are close to retiring and have a pension pot to convert into retirement income. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit A tutorial in the ‘How a DC scheme works (2014)’ module called 'Decisions at retirement' covers helping members to choose appropriate options at retirement. You must log in or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
file_328.txt|Fee for Intervention Cost recovery scheme RIDDOR Changes to injury reporting Subscribe 
file_267.txt|The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Phase 1 Accreditation Scheme The MHRA have developed a scheme to maximise subject safety and to create additional public confidence in the regulatory oversight of such clinical trials. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this The inspection process This section outlines the Good Clinical Practice inspection process and gives details of the types of inspections and how they are carried out. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Good Clinical Practice Guide The ‘Good Clinical Practice Guide’ is a brand new publication covering the legislation, guidance and good practice that relates to the conduct of clinical trials of medicinal products for human use in the UK. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Background This page provides information about Good Clinical Practice and how the MHRA Good Clinical Practice Inspectorate works. Go to the background page Serious breaches reporting We have issued guidance on the notification of serious breaches of GCP. This guidance outlines the practical arrangements for notifications and provides advice on what should and what should not be classified as a “serious breach” and what must be reported. Go to the page on serious breaches of reporting Risk-based inspections This section provides information about risk-based inspections, why the MHRA is now using this method of inspection and how they work. Go to the risk-based inspections page Discussion forum and frequently asked questions The GCP forum has been created as a tool to help those involved in clinical trials of Investigational Medicinal Products to comply with the clinical trials legislation and GCP requirements and provides the ideal opportunity for extended communication between researchers. It also provides answers to frequently asked questions relating to GCP. 
file_625.txt|Types of level crossings This page explains what types of level crossing can be found in Great Britain. Level crossings are in many forms depending on whether they are on a public or private road, or for vehicle, horse or pedestrian use. The protection arrangements which are appropriate at level crossings will vary, depending upon the crossing location, for example proximity to road junctions, the level of use and the type of railway traffic. An important factor in assuring the safety of level crossings is providing, so far as circumstances permit, a consistent appearance for road and rail users of any crossing. To help achieve this, several 'standard' level crossing types have been developed over the years. Types of level crossings in Great Britain include: Gated  crossings operated by railway staff -  this type of crossing is protected by gates, on both sides of the railway,  which complete the fencing of the railway when closed across the road or  the railway. Barrier  crossings operated by railway staff -  this type of crossing is protected by road traffic light signals and  lifting barriers on both sides of the railway. An audible warning to  pedestrians is also provided. Barrier  crossings with obstacle detection - this type of  crossing is protected by road traffic light signals and lifting barriers  on each side of the railway. An audible warning to pedestrians is also  provided. Automatic  half barrier crossings (AHBC) - this type of crossing  is protected by road traffic light signals and a lifting barrier on both  sides of the railway. Audible warning to pedestrians is also provided. Automatic  barrier crossings, locally monitored (ABCL) - this type of crossing appears, to the road user, to be similar to an  automatic half barrier crossing. It is protected by road traffic light  signals and a single lifting barrier on both sides of the railway. Automatic  open crossings, locally monitored (AOCL) -  this type of crossing has no barriers but is protected by road traffic  light signals and an audible warning for pedestrians. Open  crossings - this type of crossing does not have  barriers or road traffic light signals. Only road traffic signs are  provided. Road users must give way to trains at the crossing. User  worked crossings (UWCs) for vehicles – this type of crossing is normally protected by gates, or lifting  barriers on both sides of the railway. The gates, normally closed across  the road and hung so as to open away from the railway, are operated by the  users. Footpath  and bridleway crossings - this type of crossing  is found where the railway crosses a footpath or bridleway. Foot  crossings at stations - this type of crossing  is found between platforms at stations and may be the only route between  platforms or the only practicable route for people who cannot use steps. Last updated - 28 April 2014 
file_574.txt|Network Rail Our health and safety assessment of Network Rail Our assessment of Network Rail's health and safety performance in 2012-13, including level crossing safety, maintenance of the railway infrastructure, earthworks, structures, safety-by-design, workforce safety and occupational safety. Overall assessment The findings from our inspection work is judged against our RM3 model to assess Network Rail's performance against a number of key components which are necessary to deliver an effective safety management system; for example, leadership, competence and risk management. Our analysis shows that since last year, Network Rail has improved some aspects of its management capability nearer towards excellence, but other components are some way below excellence and require improvement. Where we found evidence of significant weaknesses in Network Rail's activities, we took appropriate enforcement action – see annex 1 . Key messages for the first time, Network Rail has set out a strategic direction for its workforce's health and safety in Transforming Safety & Wellbeing strategy for 2012-24 . The strategy has a number of long and short term objectives including of 'eliminating all fatalities and major injuries and reducing train accident risk by 50%' by 2019; leadership in safety culture has shown a marked improvement at senior-levels in 2012-13, where safety performance is clearly important. However, actions at supervisory-level and in the workforce do not always reflect the right safety culture. There is evidence of underlying tensions between safety and train punctuality and train performance; the management of track, structures, drainage and vegetation has improved, but more is needed to continually ensure safety. Some asset registers are incomplete and this can lead to inaccurate estimates of the necessary maintenance work and an over-reliance on reactive maintenance; Network Rail has insufficient resource to deliver all the maintenance work it planned in track and off-track assets, such as fencing and vegetation management, which can create the potential for an increase in asset failures and risk of train accidents. Although the dataset is small, we saw increases in the number of rail breaks and track geometry faults on some routes; occupational health management has improved, but there is a long way to go before Network Rail can demonstrate a coordinated and robust process for managing occupational health and wellbeing particularly at route level; and in many of the areas we inspected, we found poor quality risk assessments and consequently risks were not being controlled so far as is reasonably practicable. We found a lack of competence in some people required to complete risk assessments. What we found Level Crossings Network Rail is committed to reducing level crossing risk 25% by 2019 and it is currently on-target, as measured by its own model, to deliver this. This improvement has come through strong leadership from senior managers and demonstrates what can be achieved with the right focus. We found that in the routes, some level crossing risk assessments were poor and did not identify the best risk controls. We also found that risk assessments were not always being carried out at the right stage of the renewal and enhancement process, which introduced delays and additional costs at the level crossing commissioning stage. We note that Network Rail has recently introduced route level crossing managers and a national level crossing team, which should improve the quality of the risk assessment process. Maintenance of the infrastructure It is important to carry out the right amount of planned maintenance to prevent faults from occurring. Track faults can cause train derailments and poor fencing, drainage and vegetation can increase potential train accident risks. For example, poor drainage can affect track quality and overgrown vegetation can affect how well train drivers can see signals. Our inspections found that not all the planned maintenance work was delivered, partly because there were not enough people to do the work and partly because Network Rail does not always have the right information to plan its work effectively, including complete asset registers. We found that track inspection and reactive maintenance was being carried out, but using a 'find and fix' approach is not the most reliable way to ensure a safe and resilient track and infrastructure. A proactive 'predict and prevent' approach to planned maintenance is a better way to control underlying train accident precursor risks. During the year, we saw an increase in the number of track faults including track geometry faults and an increase in the number of rail breaks on some routes, particularly the East Coast mainline and Sussex routes. Track geometry faults do not necessarily present an immediate safety risk, but can be precursors to more serious track faults and are often indicative of insufficient planned maintenance or renewal. Network Rail has acknowledged that some maintenance depots are under-resourced and intends to increase the amount of planned maintenance work this year. We will continue to monitor this issue closely and take action where we find evidence that health and safety risk is not being managed adequately. Earthworks There has been a significant increase in the number and severity of earthwork failures in 2012, mostly associated with periods of heavy rainfall. The graph below shows the correlation between rainfall and earthwork failures. Our inspections and investigation of earthwork incidents found that many slopes are vulnerable to severe weather because they are in a poor condition and have not been properly maintained. These pose the potential to cause serious incidents. We served an enforcement notice requiring Network Rail to use operational controls to reduce the likely consequences from a train hitting failed earthworks; for example, by introducing proportionate and risk-based speed restrictions. Network Rail Scotland has introduced a severe weather procedure to reduce the risk from infrastructure failures and other routes are in the process of implementing similar measures. We see operational controls as a temporary solution and we expect Network Rail to improve its earthworks management to prevent them failing in the first place and make them resilient to potential future climate change. Close correlation between high rainfall and landslips in 2012-13 Source: SMIS and Centre for Ecology and Hydrology The quality of the drainage can affect the stability of earthworks. Network Rail made a commitment to complete the asset register for drainage and carry out an initial examination by 2012; some progress has been made but the work is not complete and therefore, Network Rail cannot demonstrate that its drainage asset is maintained to reduce risks so far as is reasonably practicable. We found some positive initiatives to improve slope drainage in some routes, such as the active use of local water management groups. Structures Structures include bridges, tunnels and viaducts; it is important that structures are examined regularly to ensure they are in a safe condition and to prioritise future maintenance requirements. Our inspections found that Network Rail's examination reports for structures generally gave an accurate picture of their physical condition, but in some cases the recommendations made following the examination were too general; they did not contain specific actions or effective arrangements to ensure defects were rectified. We found that route asset managers did not have the time or resource to fully evaluate the implications of examination reports, especially from site inspections. Network Rail has a backlog of bridge capability assessments and we considered that the normal planned work programme was inadequate to rectify this. Network Rail has engaged contractors to address the backlog and priority was given to structures with the highest risks. Although the bridge assessment process was in backlog, we found that generally Route Asset Managers are using a risk-based approach to the high-risk structures they manage, for example by restricting train speed over higher risk bridges. Safety-by-design Safety should be considered at a project's design stage to ensure that early and efficient opportunities are taken to control risks so far as is reasonably practicable in later operation and maintenance. We found some improvement in using this approach compared to previous years, but the pace of change is too slow and safety-by-design is not yet considered 'business as usual'. We found occasional examples of good practice but in most cases project development failed to take full account of opportunities to reduce later maintenance and operational requirements. We will continue to press Network Rail on this because it provides a big opportunity to efficiently and effectively remove risks from the system. Workforce health and safety Workforce health and safety is another area where Network Rail recognises it can and must improve. Network Rail has developed a workforce safety strategy and takes an active part in the cross-industry track worker safety group, which is well-led and highly energised. RSSB's data shows that harm to the workforce across the railway industry reduced by 11% in 2012-13. However, track workers are still the most at risk from fatal and major injury risks and improvements to track worker safety are lagging behind improvements in other areas. In our inspections, we found examples of poor planning and poor systems of work, which meant that track workers are unnecessarily exposed to additional risks. Network Rail is proposing or implementing a number of initiatives to improve track worker safety, including: exploring better track worker protection systems and using new technologies and innovation; implementing a new system that will involve a 100% check of competence and log of workers in and out of worksites to better manage the hours they work and improve fatigue management; and implementing a new permit to work system as part of a safe system of work. In the medium to long term, Network Rail proposes to have fewer people working where they can be accidentally hit by trains, through the mechanisation of track inspections and the use of remote condition monitoring processes. Network Rail has proposed a number of track worker safety initiatives in recent years, some of these have been implemented, but others have failed or not delivered the expected outputs. Therefore, we will monitor the development and implementation of the current proposals and activities to improve worker safety, described in Network Rail's new strategy and we expect Network Rail to measure the effectiveness of any new processes to identify where it can make further improvements. Workforce safety is also important during construction-type activities on the railway; this work is often carried out by Network Rail's Infrastructure Projects division or by its contractors. We generally find that health and safety management is less good in this part of Network Rail's business, when compared to its other maintenance and renewals work. This year, we found that overall site conditions were better than in previous years, but there were still too many examples of poor practice, unsafe behaviours and a lack of impetus from supervisors or from within the workforce to challenge work not being done as planned. We found that improvements are required in basic housekeeping standards to reduce worksite slips, trips and falls. On a more positive note, we found evidence of improvements in lifting operations and in the use of road-rail vehicles, but more consistency is needed. Occupational health During the year, we inspected the risks and controls associated with hand-arm vibration, exposure to silica dust when ballast is being handled, exposure to dust and fume when cutting, grinding and welding rail, and the management of asbestos. We found poor on-site control measures, because of poor risk assessments and little evidence of proactive monitoring to check that the planned controls were actually in use. We found a general lack of ownership and accountability for health management, particularly at route-level and a lack of good data to allow Network Rail to prioritise areas for action in the future at national level. Network Rail lags behind other UK industries in its management of occupational health issues. We are encouraging Network Rail to remedy this situation through our draft determination, where we have assumed that improvements in occupational health and wellbeing will generate savings for Network Rail through reduced workforce absence. In terms of railway construction activities, while strategy and improvement programmes are being developed, the key issue for Network Rail is to encourage proper delivery, ownership and effective implementation of new systems, competences and culture at Route and track-level. Overall, on-site conditions continue to improve and consistency is better than it was, but Network Rail still needs to improve in areas such as site traffic management and site housekeeping to reduce basic slips, trips and falls and occupational health risks. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_294.txt|Register Home The National Rail Trends (NRT) Portal provides access to up-to-date statistics held by the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR). Registration is free and simple, and provides access to all content and functionality of the NRT portal. Register now to create your own reports. We are conducting a small survey on the quarterly and annual statistical releases and the quality reports we now produce. Your feedback will tell us how you have found these in the last year, help us with making further improvements and aim to give you the information that you need. Here is the survey: https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/statsreleases_qualreports . It should take about 5-10 minutes and closing date is Friday 16th January 2015. Thank you. Following user feedback, we are in the process of adding reference numbers to tabular data which is published on the portal for the Report Wizard and Data Portal reports.  This process will be taking place over a time period and will be done on a category by category basis.  This means that some reports will have table numbers sooner than others. Owing to data supply issues, we are unable to publish the 2013-14 annual data for the impact of freight on road haulage and the market share for rail freight. We are working with our data suppliers and shall provide an update on timescales on the data portal as soon as we have more information.  ORR apologises for any inconvenience this may cause. Precursor Indicator Model Publication The Railway Safety Standard Board's (RSSB) Precursor Indicator Model (PIM) has been published on the ORR Data Portal since 9th May 2011.  RSSB have now taken the decision to publish the raw data on their website.   To avoid duplication of effort, the ORR has decided to withdraw this publication from the ORR Data Portal.  For further details concerning this change, please review the further information page of the portal. For any further information, please contact the statistics Head of Profession, Fazilat Dar at rstats@orr.gsi.gov.uk on 0207 282 3705. As part of our commitment to improving the quality of our statistics in line with requirements for National Statistics accreditation, we introduced themed statistical releases in the latter part of 2013. These will provide contextual commentary on statistics across a common topic (e.g. rail usage) and will aid the user in the interpretation of the data. This means that we will no longer be producing the quarterly summary in its current form, with quarter 4 2012-13 (Jan – Mar 2013) being the last one. Please contact us at rail.stats@orr.gsi.gov.uk for more information. The data wizard reports relating to service satisfaction have been removed from the Data Portal as many of them are due to be revised.  Alternative service satisfaction data may be viewed in the form of pre-created reports at service satisfaction reports . There are some changes to the following publications. Rail Market Share Complaints: London Travel Watch and Passenger Focus Crowding Data For more information go to further information or contact the statistics Head of Profession, Fazilat Dar at rstats@orr.gsi.gov.uk on 0207 282 3705. Next scheduled reports to be added - 29/1/2015 Regional Usage (2013-2014) (Source: Steer Davies Gleaves) (Please note that on day of publication, login may be required to see reports) For the full range of scheduled publications, please consult the publication schedule For information on the cookies used on the NRT portal please consult the privacy and cookies page . Latest reports 
file_681.txt|Periodic review 2008 Periodic review 2008 (PR08) The 2008 Periodic Review (PR08) set the outputs that Network Rail must deliver, and the level of access charges paid by train operators for use of the infrastructure from 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2014, or control period 4 (CP4). In this section: A programme of international fact-finding visits was conducted during the summer and autumn of 2007 to a number of railway administrations in Europe, North America and Australia. This study tour was part of our work on the 2008 periodic review. Periodic review independent evaluation 5 Aug 2009 What PR08 included PR08 included extensive work determining the appropriate financial and incentive framework for Network Rail and reviewed the potential for efficiency savings in its expenditure. This was the first review since the passing of the Railways Act 2005. It introduced a new process involving the issuing by the Secretary of State and Scottish Ministers of : High Level Output Specifications (HLOSs), and Statements of Funds Available (SOFAs) This introduced the need for understanding of whole industry costs and revenues when undertaking the review. On 30 October 2008 we published our determination for control period 4 (CP4, 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2014). The determination sets out the outputs that Network Rail will need to deliver in CP4 and the revenue that Network Rail will receive from access charges and other sources. In December 2008 we published the final price lists and the review notices which started the legal implementation of our determination. On 5 February 2009, Network Rail formally accepted our determination. Key PR08 ORR documents 
file_226.txt|If relevant to you, the national supply codes are as follows: England NPC: FSU144. Northern Ireland: Device supplied by PaLS as a 'Non Stock Item' Scotland SKU: NP106/12 Risk of incorrect placement of catheter and delay to treatment. This is due to a manufacturing problem resulting in: decreased length of the catheter. The catheter tip may not reach the desired position during placement. catheters with four lumens (instead of five). This may then require additional catheter or extension sets after placement. Vygon has issued a Field Safety Notice (127Kb) (FSN), dated 16 September 2014, to its customers recalling affected catheters but has not received enough replies to assure themselves that users have received and acted on this information. Identify and quarantine affected catheters. Complete the confirmation form in the FSN to arrange for replacement catheters if necessary. Return the form to the manufacturer. Action by All those responsible for the purchase and use of this device. This MDA has been sent to: Care Quality Commission (CQC) (headquarters) for information Clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) HSC trusts in Northern Ireland (chief executives) NHS boards and trusts in Wales (chief executives) NHS boards in Scotland (equipment co-ordinators) NHS England area teams for information NHS trusts in England (chief executives) Special health authorities for information Onward distribution Please bring this notice to the attention of relevant employees in your establishment. Below is a suggested list of recipients. Trusts CAS and SABS (NI) liaison officers for onward distribution to all relevant staff including: A&E consultants 
file_819.txt|Current licence consultations This page details proposals to grant licences or licence exemptions on which we are consulting. For licences or licence exemptions in force, please contact the licensing and access team or see our public register . Proposal to grant 
file_663.txt|Track access charges workshop Track access charges workshop: cap on variable usage charge and freight-specific charge This page sets out details of the workshop we held on our proposals to establish a cap on variable usage charge and a freight-specific charge, on Thursday 12 July 2012. As part of the periodic review 2013 (PR13), we consulted on capping certain track access charges in advance of our final determination. The consultation was published on 17 May 2012 and closed on 10 August 2012. The proposed cap was an upper limit on the average charge -  we may ultimately determine lower charges, taking the form of: an average variable usage charge per vehicle for freight vehicles and separately for passenger vehicles, not distinguishing variation in charge by individual vehicle or commodity; and A freight-specific charge, set to contribute to the fixed costs of rail infrastructure associated with freight traffic. On 18 May 2012, we held a half-day workshop where we presented and discussed the main elements of our consultation with key stakeholders. On 5 July 2012, we held a similar event as part of the consultation in order to provide stakeholders with a further opportunity to discuss our proposals, and included more detail on the work being carried out by Network Rail to estimate the freight associated avoidable costs of operating on the network. Workshop slides Slides from the 5 July 2012 workshop are available below, including those on the approach taken by Network Rail's consultants LEK to estimate freight avoidable costs of operating on the Network. 
file_758.txt|Current track access applications Current track access applications All documents relating to track access applications we are currently considering. This may include application forms, draft agreements, any related documents and responses we make public. Once we've made a decision, these documents will be removed from this section and relevant documents will be published in the track access decisions section. 
file_272.txt|What's new Composite co-ordinated collections (CCC) – National pilot scheme MHRA  is making more widely available a new scheme for coordinating the submission and assessment of variations and changes to the packaging/patient information leaflet that are submitted in parallel to amend a marketing authorisation. The scheme is called Composite Co-ordinated Collections (CCC) and is being piloted from October 2014. Find out more about the pilot. European variations Regulation The current European variations Regulation came into force on 1 January 2010 and replaced Regulations 1084/2003/EC and 1085/2003/EC. Commission Regulation 1234/2008 (external link) originally only concerned variations handled in Mutual Recognition/Decentralised and Centralised Procedures. The UK also applied the same procedures to variations to purely national Marketing Authorisations from 1 January 2010. This was done through the UK fees legislation and accompanying guidance dated 30 November 2009 ( UK national MA variations guidance (72Kb)). However, Commission Regulation 1234/2008 (external link) has been recently updated by Commission Regulation 712/2012 (external link) and will introduce a number of changes. One of the main changes concerns the inclusion of a new chapter specifically to cover variations to purely national marketing authorisations. These changes become effective on 4 August 2013 and from this point onwards, the basis for processing variations to purely national Marketing Authorisations in the UK will be Commission Regulation 1234/2008 as amended. The separate UK guidance will therefore not apply to variations to the relevant Marketing Authorisations submitted on or after 4 August and the necessary changes have already been reflected in the updated UK fees legislation. The other key change is the extension of the worksharing procedure to also include purely national Marketing Authorisations (see additional detailed guidance). The accompanying variation classification guideline on which the variations system operates has also been updated to reflect adaptation to technical progress, changes introduced in the basic legislation, and the experience acquired to date. This will replace existing guidance. The procedural and classification guidelines were originally separate documents, but they have now been combined and will apply to any variation submitted on or after 4 August to coincide with the updated Regulation. It is therefore important that any individuals involved in the preparation of variation submissions familiarise themselves with the updated guidance and immediately take it into consideration for any new submissions made on or after 4 August 2013. Specific guidance 
file_240.txt|Home Safety information General safety information and advice General safety information and advice Printer friendly version (new window) This section contains specific information on products such as hormone replacement therapy, breast implants, vaccines and testing kits. The section also contains advice for consumers such as the risks of buying medicines over the Internet, buying and using herbal medicines and leaving hospital with a medical device. There is also a section on more general and technical information such as mobile communications interference with medical devices and wheeled mobility and seating equipment. Finally, there is a specific section for Medical Device Liaison Officer information. There is further safety guidance provided in our publications section , which includes Device Bulletins , Drug Safety Update , One Liners and posters and leaflets . Product-specific information and advice The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Technical information This section provides general and technical information on such issues as cellphones causing interference with the use of medical devices and the decontamination of medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Herbal medicines: Advice to consumers Information on buying and using herbal medicines.  Herbal remedies are medicines. As with any other medicine, you should use them with care while first ensuring they are the correct products for you. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Advice and information for consumers This section provides information and advice for consumers including the risks of buying products over the Internet, advice on buying herbal medicines and medical devices and what we are doing to combat the problem of counterfeit products. Go to advice and information for consumers pages Medical Device Liaison Officer information Information for Medical Device Liaison Officers - whose role is to protect public health and ensure that MHRA Medical Device Alerts are promptly disseminated to the appropriate people in an organisation. 
file_481.txt|Health and Safety Executive Health and Safety Executive We took over responsibility for regulating health and safety on the railway from the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) on 1 April 2006. This was one of the changes set out in The Railways Act 2005 that required amendments to the legislation. The HSE gives advice to the Government on health and safety matters. As one of our statutory duties, we work closely with the HSE on any safety implications that may follow from the exercise of its functions. The HSE is responsible for the regulation of risks to health and safety arising from work activity in Britain. Their mission is to prevent death, injury and ill health to those at work and those affected by work activities. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_829.txt|Service disruption Service disruption This page provides information about who to contact in case of disruption to your train service due to adverse weather or engineering works. Service disruption due to adverse weather You should first contact the relevant train operating company directly to allow it the opportunity to address your concerns. Most complaints can be resolved in the first instance by dealing directly with the company responsible. If you have made a complaint to a train operator, and are dissatisfied with the response you receive, you can contact either Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch for help. Service disruption due to engineering works If you have a complaint regarding service disruption due to engineering work you should first contact the relevant train operating company directly to allow it the opportunity to address your concerns. Please follow the procedure above for further complaints. Network Rail needs to restrict access to the rail network to carry out many of its maintenance and renewals activities. This work is usually carried out at weekends, or weekdays during the early hours of the morning so that disruption to services is kept to a minimum. In most cases the work is planned many weeks in advance, and notices are displayed in relevant stations giving passengers advance notification of the disruption. However, sometimes emergency engineering work may need to be carried out at short notice to rectify an infrastructure fault that may endanger the safe running of trains – for example in the case of a broken rail. In these circumstances no advance notification can be given. 
file_60.txt|Detailed guidance Key points Ensure that your clients’ defined contribution schemes have adequate internal controls that enable trustees and their advisers to manage risks relating to their scheme. Set up and maintain your own procedures and controls to ensure you provide a good service for clients. Ensure that schemes have a process that enables trustees to identify, evaluate and manage risks on an ongoing basis. Internal controls You should ensure that your clients’ DC schemes have adequate internal controls that enable trustees and their advisers to manage their scheme according to the scheme rules and the law. You should also set up and maintain your own controls and procedures to ensure you provide a good quality, accurate service for your clients. Internal controls are arrangements and procedures for: scheme administration and management monitoring that administration and management safe custody and security of scheme assets. Back to top Risk management process DC schemes should have a process that enables trustees and their advisers to identify, evaluate and manage risks, and to monitor risk management controls. You may be asked to help with this process. Identifying risks Identify risks that are critical to the scheme and which are likely to have a significant impact on the scheme’s ability to provide member benefits if they are not managed effectively. You should use sources of information such as audit reports, service contracts, complaints and administration reports. Areas of risk that are likely to have a significant impact on your clients’ DC schemes include: fraud (including pension scams and theft) and the importance of independent oversight investment 
file_877.txt|Station access applications and decisions Station access applications and decisions This section contains station access applications and decisions made under s.17 of the Railways Act 1993 . Current applications and decisions 
file_346.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_372.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_93.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
file_116.txt|All our automatic enrolment guidance for employers in one place Pension scams Pension scams – also known as ‘one-off pension investments’, ‘pension loans’ or upfront cash – can leave you with little or no pension. Check the facts before you make an irreversible decision. A lifetime's savings can be lost in a moment. Don't get stung. Find out what to do if you're a pension scheme member and you think you're being targeted by a pension scam: Information for pension scheme members about pension scams Whistleblowing and other concerns If you suspect malpractice in your work-based pension scheme, or have significant concerns about how it is being run, you can report this to us. Who to contact if you have concerns about your pension scheme Complaints, advice, planning and tax Please note that private sector organisations we link to are not endorsed by Government and are provided for information only. 
file_366.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_211.txt|What’s new 5 November 2014 MHRA have produced a report: ‘Summary of the evidence on the benefits and risks of vaginal mesh implants’ as part of ongoing work and at the request of the Chief Medical Officer, Professor Dame Sally Davies. Commercially sensitive information has been redacted. Our conclusion is that from a regulatory perspective the benefits of the use of these devices outweigh the risks. We consider there is currently no justification for taking any regulatory action to remove these devices from use in UK hospitals. Download documents: 
file_157.txt|Theatre workers take centre stage in latest automatic enrolment landmark Ref: PN14-46 Thursday 11 December 2014 More than five million workers have been automatically enrolled into a workplace pension scheme, The Pensions Regulator has revealed today. The five millionth worker to join the cast of those automatically enrolled into a workplace pension works for Rose Theatre Kingston, Surrey. This month’s automatic enrolment declaration of compliance report shows that more than 42,700 employers of all types from charities to supermarkets, football clubs and decorators have now automatically enrolled their workers. Siobhan Sharp, 23, Marketing Officer at the theatre said: “I work behind the scenes on productions for the Rose so it makes a change for me to be centre stage having been automatically enrolled into a workplace pension. “I wasn’t saving towards a pension before, so knowing I’m saving for my future is a good thing and brings me peace of mind.” The first workers were automatically enrolled into pension schemes in 2012 starting with the largest employers and the duties will extend to the smallest firms and new employers by 2018. The policy was introduced to address under-saving with millions not putting aside enough for retirement, and only 1 in 3 private sector workers paying into a workplace pension. Pensions Minister Steve Webb said: “Our pension reforms are helping people save towards a secure and comfortable future in their retirement. The number of people saving into their workplace pension was chronically low. We are changing that so participating in a workplace pension scheme provided by your employer is no longer a rarity, but becomes the norm.” The Pensions Regulator’s Executive Director for Automatic Enrolment Charles Counsell said: “Automatic enrolment affects every employer with workers in the UK. It’s automatic for staff – they don’t have to do anything. But it’s not automatic for employers: they need to take steps to make sure certain workers are enrolled. “More than 43,000 employers have automatically enrolled their staff into a pension and nearly half of them said they wished they had left more time as it took them longer than they thought. We encourage all employers, however small, to learn from the experience of other employers – leaving extra time is better than leaving it too late.” Editor's notes The Pensions Regulator is the regulator of work-based pension schemes in the UK. We have objectives to: protect members’ benefits; reduce the risk of calls on the Pension Protection Fund (PPF); to promote, and to improve understanding of the good administration of work-based pension schemes; to maximise employer compliance with automatic enrolment duties; and to minimise any adverse impact on the sustainable growth of an employer (in relation to the exercise of the regulator’s functions under Part 3 of the Pensions Act 2004 only). A monthly report on the number of employers who have completed their declaration of compliance is published on our website . All employers must declare their compliance to The Pensions Regulator after automatically enrolling their staff. Eventually up to 1.3 million employers will have automatically enrolled up to 10 million eligible workers into a workplace pension scheme. Rose Theatre Kingston employs 101 people. It produces its own productions as well as hosting work from theatre companies including the Royal Shakespeare Company and the English Touring Theatre in its 900-seat auditorium. Press contacts 
file_671.txt|PR13 legal notices Periodic review 2013 (PR13) legal notices This webpage contains all the legal notices that we have issued relating to the periodic review 2013 (PR13). Legal notices Notice for Network Rail's civils asset management plan 2016/17-2018/19 This notice is to initiate the civils adjustment mechanism, as set out in our PR13 determination. The notice is issued pursuant to condition 1.8 of the licence. Notice for Network Rail's civils asset management plan 2016/17-2018/19 pdf icon PDF, 157 Kb We were unable to conclude on control period 5 (CP5) civils expenditure in our 2013 periodic review because of the level of uncertainty in Network Rail's strategic business plan (SBP) submission. In our determination we set out how we would resolve this through the Civils Adjustment Mechanism. This process requires Network Rail to submit its civils asset management plan 2016/17-2018/19, so we can form a judgement on the volumes and unit costs of the work that will be funded. Implementation of the 2013 periodic review: issue of review implementation notices On 18 March 2014, we concluded the statutory implementation process for PR13 by serving and publishing review implementation notices pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule 4A to the Railways Act 1993. These confirmed that the changes we proposed to make to access agreements and Network Rail's network licence (as set out in the review notices that we issued on 20 December 2013) would be implemented on 1 April 2014. The review implementation notices directed the parties to access agreements within the scope of PR13 to amend their agreements so that the changes would come into effect on and from 1 April 2014. The seven review implementation notices, and the accompanying covering letter that we issued with them, are available below. We have also included MS Word versions of the template supplemental agreements for the parties to access agreements to use when complying with our directions. 
file_302.txt|Publication dates Publication dates The publication timetable lists the publication dates for official statistics, the statistical releases and other statistics that we publish. These dates are determined by availability of the data and are the earliest possible dates which we can publish the information. The one exception to this is Timetabled Train Kilometres which are calculated in advance from biannual data – the second quarter of results are held back until they can be compared with other datasets from the same quarter. For any further information, please contact the statistics Head of Profession, Fazilat Dar at rstats@orr.gsi.gov.uk or on 0207 282 3705. Month 
file_191.txt|Error: Page cannot be displayed Unfortunately the page you are looking for has not been found on our website. Please use the back button on your browser and try again or use our: Alternatively, you may be able to find an archived version of this page in the National Archives (external link) If you need any assistance please contact our Web Team by emailing webupdates@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Please help us improve our website by reporting technical problems using our online Technical feedback form 
file_340.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_406.txt|Working with substances hazardous to health: A brief guide to COSHH Date of publication: Buy this product This leaflet is aimed at employers in small businesses. It will also be useful for trade union and employee health and safety representatives. It explains how to control hazardous substances at work and comply with the Control of Substances Hazardous to Health (COSHH) Regulations 2002 (as amended). The leaflet has been updated, with minor amendments, but the advice is broadly unchanged. Related products 
file_518.txt|Data protection Data protection The Data Protection Act (DPA) establishes a framework of rights and duties which are designed to protect personal data. At the heart of the Act are the eight data protection principles.  The main purpose of these principles is to protect the interests of the individuals whose personal data is being processed.  When handling personal data, we follow the data protection principles. For further information and guidance on the Act please visit the Information Commissioner's website . How we handle information requests for personal data The DPA gives you a number of rights in relation to the processing of your personal data including the right of access to a copy of the personal information we hold about you. This is known as a subject access request. We will respond to subject access requests no later than 40 days following the receipt of all the information necessary to deal with the request. How to make a request for your personal data Your request should be made to us in writing .  It would help us if you could tell us in what regard you believe we might hold personal data on you. So that we are sure we are providing information to the right person, we will require proof of your identity before we can act on your request.  This should include a photocopy of the identification pages of your current passport or of a current photo driving licence, and a current utilities bill or credit card or bank statement, which includes your name and current address. These can be returned to you if required.If you do not have any of these forms of identification please contact us . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_124.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
file_345.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_107.txt|2014 levy What's the purpose of the levy? The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions sets the rate of the general levy each year. The levy is in place to cover the cost of running: The Pensions Regulator Back to top Pay the levy by direct debit Direct debit - the easy way to pay your scheme levy. It's a safe and secure way to make payments, it's free to set up and can save you time and effort (no need to post a cheque). Set up a direct debit today in four easy steps: Log on to Exchange . Navigate to the 'My schemes' page and select from your list of associated schemes (if you've not yet associated to your scheme, any existing associated Exchange user is able to provide you access to your scheme). Choose 'Maintain / View scheme levy' from the 'Scheme options' page. Select 'Set up a direct debit for levy payments'. Understanding your levy invoice The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions sets the rate of the general levy each year. The general levy is based on the total number of members in the scheme at the end of the scheme year before last. You can update your scheme's membership using scheme maintenance in Exchange . Here are some examples: Levy payable on 1 April 2014 would be based on total scheme membership taken as at the scheme year end prior to 1 April 2013 - if the scheme year end is 5 April, membership will be taken as at 5 April 2012. ABC Pension scheme is a defined contribution (money purchase) pension scheme and is eligible for the 2014 levy invoice. The membership figure of 200 was taken as at 5 April 2012. The general levy rate for 100 - 999 members is £2.08 per member, therefore the amount payable for the general levy is £2.08 x 200 = £416. The amount to be paid depends on the band which the scheme falls into and may be subject to a minimum amount per band. To view previous years' bandings, please see the levy archive . 
file_246.txt|(358Kb) List of Terminated and Cancelled Manufacturing and Wholesale Dealer Licences 2014 06 May 2014 ~ Guidance note 6: Notes for applicants and holders of a wholesale dealer’s licence (WDA(H)) or broker registration (378Kb) This guidance note has been published to assist applicants and holders of a wholesale dealer’s licence (WDA(H)) or broker registration and outline the key obligations for maintaining the licence/registration. 06 May 2014 ~ Guidance note 5: Notes for applicants and holders of a manufacturer’s licence (193Kb) This guidance note has been published to assist applicants and holders of a manufacturer’s licence and outline the key obligations for maintaining the licence. 06 May 2014 ~ Guidance note 14: The supply of unlicensed medicinal products ('specials') (364Kb) This guidance note provides advice on the manufacture, importation, distribution and supply of unlicensed medicinal products for human use (commonly described as 'specials') which have been specially manufactured or imported to the order of a doctor, dentist, nurse independent prescriber, pharmacist independent prescriber or supplementary prescriber for the treatment of individual patients. 22 Apr 2014 ~ List of Terminated, Revoked and Cancelled Manufacturing and Wholesale Dealer Licences - 2010 - 2014 (968Kb) An updated version of the list of terminated and revoked manufacturing and wholesale dealer licences for March 2014. 
file_532.txt|What and how we regulate The Office of Rail Regulation is the independent regulator for Britain's rail industry. We are the economic regulator for railway infrastructure (Network Rail and HS1); the health and safety regulator for the rail industry as a whole – including mainline, metro, tramways and heritage railways across Britain; and the industry's consumer and competition authority. Final determination Read our final determination Starting mainline operations Find information about the steps a prospective train operator will have to take before it starts running services. 
file_812.txt|Licences by company K - R Railway licences for companies listed K – R. London and Birmingham Railway Ltd Station licence pdf icon PDF, 29 Kb (granted by the Secretary of State) Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Ltd Station licence pdf icon PDF, 83 Kb (granted by the Secretary of State) North Yorkshire Moors Railway Enterprises plc © Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_446.txt|Register of interests Register of interests Railway legislation and good corporate governance demands that all members of the ORR board or employees should declare any involvement where they have a financial or other personal interest that is likely to influence their performance of a particular function. The register of interests of board members is reviewed annually and updated each time an individual's interests change. Details of employee's declarations of interest are available upon request. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_893.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_224.txt|3ml 1 Unit Autopen Classic 7PN Autopen 24 3ml 2 Unit 7PP Autopen 24 3ml 1 Unit 7RV 3ml 2 Unit Autopen Classic 8KK 3ml 2 Unit Autopen Classic 8XD Autopen 24 3ml 2 Unit Risk of hyperglycaemia, which could lead to immediate and long-term deterioration of health. Affected devices may have a mechanical fault which could cause the dose selector to revert to zero resulting in the devices not delivering the correct dose of insulin. Advise users to stop using affected devices and to seek a replacement pen.  Ensure that a suitable alternative device is available to enable them to maintain their insulin regime. Discontinue supply of all affected devices. Quarantine and return any remaining stock of affected devices to the manufacturer. Action by 
file_713.txt|Enforcement of the licence Enforcement of the Network Rail licence Enforcement is one of our key functions, and we shall use our powers firmly but fairly and in a timely manner. Our economic enforcement policy and penalties statement pdf icon PDF, 309 Kb explains our policy for enforcing all licences. It sets out in detail what powers we have to enforce compliance with the licence and our policies on when (and why) we would do so. It also sets out the remedies available to us if Network Rail and other licence holders are not compliant and how we will decide whether and how to use them. In this section: On 7 September 2010, we determined that Network Rail was in breach of its licence following problems introducing a new train timetable planning system. Powers of enforcement We have substantial powers at our disposal to enforce railway and safety legislation. The power to enforce licence conditions is under the Railways Act 1993 . The periodic review process sets out the charges to operate the network and the outputs that Network Rail should provide for that money. The outputs that Network Rail is required to deliver are monitored and enforced by us under the network licence . We are also a competition authority with powers to enforce UK and European competition law in relation to the railways. The enforcement of contracts and industry wide codes is with the contract parties and as such we have no direct enforcement powers. How we enforce Network Rail's licence We monitor the industry's delivery of its key regulatory and public interest obligations. We also investigate complaints about the behaviour of industry parties. In some cases, our monitoring or investigation of complaints can lead to consideration of whether there has been, is, or likely to be, a breach of a licence obligation or of competition law. Decisions on breaches of licence obligations or competition law are matters for our Board. Before making a recommendation to our Board, we will send the party under investigation a "case to answer" letter. This letter will explain what we are concerned about and why, and will describe the relevant licence condition and the nature of the possible breach. The letter will give the licence holder a reasonable time (which will vary depending on the case and its urgency) within which to make representations on the case. Following this, we will consider the representations and put a recommendation to our Board on whether we think there has been a breach and if further action should be taken. In some circumstances, we may wish to ask further questions. After the Board has made a decision, we will send the licence holder a further letter explaining the decision. If the Board finds a breach, this letter may also contain details of any action we require or any penalty we propose to impose. In the case of possible breaches of competition law, we will issue a statement of objection in the same way as other competition authorities. Further information 
file_628.txt|Level crossings policy Level crossings policy Our policies and aims on level crossings are set out here. We also explain what we will to do to help ensure the risks from level crossings are properly controlled. Great Britain's level crossing safety record is among the best in the world, but every incident has the potential for significant human and economic loss. Level crossings are the single biggest source of railway catastrophic risk, but overall the risks are well managed. We seek to influence dutyholders and others to reduce risk at Britain's level crossings. We do this through a variety of means ranging from advice to formal enforcement action. We check that preventive and protective measures are implemented in accordance with the principles of prevention set out in the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999 . Risk control should, where practicable, be achieved through the removal of level crossings and replacing them with bridges, underpasses or diversions. Where removal is not possible, we aim to ensure that duty holders reduce risk so far as is reasonably practicable and in accordance with the principles of protection. As the safety regulator for Britain's railways, our role is to provide clear advice and enforce relevant legislation – including that which relates to level crossings. We also exercise delegated powers of the Secretary of State in making level crossing orders under the Level Crossings Act 1983 . We believe that it is neither effective nor efficient for only rail companies to be responsible for managing safety at level crossings. Decisions about level crossings should involve rail companies, traffic authorities and other relevant organisations such as planning authorities as early on as possible. Relevant authorities should recognise the wider benefits that safety improvements at level crossings (for example, replacing them with bridges) can bring about, particularly for road users. If wider benefits can be achieved, the appropriate funding bodies should agree on how the costs of making safety improvements will be met. We are also committed to helping people understand the importance of the safe use of level crossings . Our aims other than in exceptional circumstances, no new level crossings on any railway therefore creating no new risks; and to make level crossing users more aware of what affects safety at level crossings. What we will do we will use current laws on creating and using level crossings to support good practice; and we will work closely with Network Rail and other rail companies to help improve safety at level crossings, and be directly involved in working groups and committees where appropriate. Last updated - 17 April 2014 
file_309.txt|Your browser does not support iframes. Export and Save 
file_539.txt|Safety critical work Safety critical work This page contains an overview of the legal requirements in relation to safety-critical workers carrying out safety-critical tasks. The Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS) contain provisions for the management of safety critical workers with respect to their competence, fitness and fatigue. The requirements are found in Part 4 of ROGS and the provisions on fatigue are supported by guidance pdf icon PDF, 1,638 Kb . The requirements of Part 4 of ROGS will apply to all dutyholders working on a transport system, for example, track contractors. Dutyholders with an established Safety Management System (SMS) must also detail how safety critical work is managed.  These dutyholders are known in Part 4 of ROGS as the 'controller of safety-critical work'. Safety critical tasks must be carried out by a competent person, and include driving and dispatching trains, signalling, installation of components and maintenance, ensuring safety of persons working on the track (provision of protection), etc. Any worker carrying out safety critical work as part of practical training, for the purpose of obtaining experience towards developing competence as a safety critical worker, must be supervised by a competent safety critical worker. Controllers of safety-critical work must have suitable and sufficient arrangements in place to monitor the competence and fitness of safety-critical workers. Further information 
file_839.txt|Advice to Ministers on the periodic review 2013 (PR13) On 15 March 2012, we wrote separately to the Scottish Ministers and the Secretary of State for Transport with our advice on Network Rail's costs and outputs for control period 5 ('CP5'), which runs from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019. 
file_853.txt|London Underground Limited P/KPD2/22/09/2014 The notice was served as a result of ongoing work at South Kentish Town (disused) station. Staff were liable to fall and suffer injury as London Underground had not taken sufficient steps to prevent anyone falling due to a lack of guard rails or barriers. 22 September 2014 
file_822.txt|Investing in the industry This page outlines ORR's investment framework and guidance for investing in the railway. The consolidated policy and guidelines (below) set out the legislation and processes for anyone who wishes to invest in the rail industry. We are currently reviewing this document in light of recent changes in the rail industry, particularly the reclassification of Network Rail's debt, and will publish a revised version once we have done this. We have updated Network Rail's rate of return in our periodic review 2013 (PR13) determination for control period 5 (CP5), which will run from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019. The revised rate of return for CP5 is 4.93% on an annual basis (and 4.81% on a semi-annual basis). We are reviewing the example calculation of a facility charge spreadsheet and if necessary, we will update it and publish this on this webpage. Investment is essential to cater for the growth in demand for both passenger and freight services. An effective framework for delivering infrastructure investments such as increasing track capacity or building new stations is required. We have a role in making sure the investment infrastructures are in place, and once agreed, projects are delivered on time and budget. Schemes are proposed by train operators, other rail users (in particular users of freight services) or funders of rail services. Others are identified by Network Rail in its role of managing the long term planning process for the railway network. Network Rail also takes the lead in promoting, planning, facilitating and, in most cases, delivering and financing schemes. Current investment framework policy and guidance 
file_897.txt|Published statistics Published statistics We publish regular commentary on rail statistics under eight themes – including performance and safety. These releases are designed to help the user interpret the data and are accredited National Statistics. In addition to statistical releases, here you can access station usage estimates, complaints data and our archived data. Statistical Releases We publish regular commentary on rail statistics under eight themes – including performance and safety. These releases are designed to help the user interpret the data and are accredited National Statistics Access statistical releases Station usage estimates Station usage data consisting of estimates of the total numbers of people entering, exiting and changing at stations. Access station usage estimates Complaints data We are responsible for the publication of official statistics on complaints. Until 2010, the Department for Transport (DfT) was responsible for collecting the data from each of the franchised train operating companies before supplying the information to us. Access complaints data Archived data Here you can access our archived data and reports that include statistical releases, NRT quarterly summary, national rail trends publications, SRA rail trends publications and health and safety statistics. 
file_444.txt|The board The board ORR's board have oversight of safety regulation, economic regulatory delivery and is the competition and consumer authority for the industry, in line with our statutory duties. Board members are appointed by the Secretary of State for Transport for a fixed term of up to five years. Anna Walker, Board member - chair Anna became chair of ORR in 5 July 2009. Prior to taking up this role, she served on the board from 22 May 2009. She is also a member of the board of Consumer Focus. Her previous roles include chief executive of the Healthcare Commission from 2004-09, director general for land use and rural affairs at the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs from 2001-2003, director general at the Department for Trade and Industry, responsible for the Government's energy policy from 1998 to 2001. She was deputy director general at the Office of Telecommunications (OFTEL) from1993 to 1997. Anna is chair of the periodic review committee and a member of the safety regulation committee and the remuneration committee. Appointed 5 July 2009 to 4 July 2014 and reappointed from 5 July 2014 to 31 December 2015. Richard Price, Board member - chief executive Richard Price was appointed chief executive in 2011 to 2016. Since his appointment, Richard has been leading the periodic review of Network Rail’s finances, and encouraging a more commercial approach to rail finance and delivery. As chief executive Richard is responsible for: the delivery by the Office of the strategy set by the ORR Board; carrying out the duties assigned to ORR under statute; ensuring the Office operates efficiently, with integrity and probity; working closely with the ORR chair, to engage with external stakeholders at all levels. Richard has worked as a policy adviser and economist in public and private sectors since the late 1980s. He spent a large part of his career at the Treasury, starting as an assistant economist, in the tax policy team, and covering a variety of policy areas. Richard worked on the reform of the criminal justice system at the Treasury and at the Home Office, where he was chief economist, leading pioneering work on the costs of crime and on crime reduction, as well as the first work in government on the costs and benefits of migration.  He was Defra’s chief economist, and developed the policy framework for reducing carbon emissions across government, as well as leading transformational reform of the organisation. In both public and private sectors, Richard has worked on business finance, policy and regulation.  He advised businesses and governments in Asia and Europe on economic regulation and finance of large infrastructure projects and utilities.  He was a non-executive director of Etc Venues Limited, helping to prepare the company for sale to private equity in 2006. After a stint at the Prime Minister’s Strategy Unit, Richard led industrial policy at the Treasury, reforming government support for business and rationalising the UK’s regulatory framework. Tracey Barlow Tracey is a non-executive member of the board. Tracey is an independent consultant specialising in business development and capital programme management, working mainly in the water and energy utility markets and she is chairman of a waste to energy technology business based near Southampton. Tracey is a non-executive director of the Highways Agency; chairs the Highways Agency investment programme delivery board sub-group and is a member of the Highways Agency’s audit committee. Previously, Tracey was responsible for the delivery of Scotland’s £2.3bn water and wastewater capital infrastructure programmes. She managed this delivery programme through a seven-partner joint venture organisation with Scottish Water. The unique nature and success of the joint venture was recognised through numerous industry, customer, stakeholder and environmental awards. She also has extensive operations and customers Services experience, culminating as general manager, networks for multi utility services in the North West of England. Tracey was transition manager for the first water industry operations outsourcing contract involving Welsh Water and United Utilities Plc. Tracey is the chair of the audit committee and a member of the remuneration committee. Appointed from 1 February 2010 to 31 January 2015. Mark Fairbairn Mark is a non-executive member of the board. Mark  has experience of running gas and electricity networks in the UK and USA, where he had input into the price control process as well as leading on safety issues. He worked for National Grid plc from 1987-2011 including as a Board member. He was director of system operations from 1998-2000 when the wholesale electricity market was opened up. From 2000-2001 he was director of UK strategy and from 2001-2003 director of engineering services. From 2003-2007 he was chief operating officer UK distribution and from 2007 to March 2011 executive director gas distribution. Mark is a member of the audit committee and safety regulation committee. Appointed from 5 September 2011 to 4 September 2015. Bob Holland Bob is a non-executive director of the board. After starting his career in the National Bus Company, Bob Holland built around 40 years' experience in transport delivery – both bus and rail industries - including six years developing Arriva's mainland European business which now has a presence in fourteen countries. Bob served as the Managing Director of UK Rail at Arriva plc from 2007, increasing the number of businesses to eight and a turnover of £1bn. He later took over responsibility for all UK operations (bus and rail) until retiring from the industry in May 2014. His rail experience includes responsibility for different types of business models including franchises, concessions, open access and rail maintenance businesses with all the associated operational and safety issues. Bob was an active member of the Rail Delivery Group, including their working group looking at access planning and asset management. Appointed from 1 January 2015 for five years. Michael Luger Michael is a non-executive member of the board. Michael was Dean of Manchester Business School between 2007 and 2013, securing significant growth and doubling student numbers. He founded, and still chairs, the University's Centre for Infrastructure Development and has a particular interest in infrastructure and asset management. He is a PhD public sector economist who has taught and written widely on utility regulation and economics. He was founding director of the University of North Carolina's Centre for Competitive Economies. Michael has served on the boards of several major public sector and not-for-profit organisations, including as chairman of a regional transportation authority in North Carolina, as well as on many state and national boards and commissions. He has been a consultant and adviser to national, state, regional and local governments throughout the world, and to major multi-national corporations. Appointed from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2019. Justin McCracken Justin is a non-executive member of the board. He was Chief Executive of the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA) from 2008-2013, a body bringing together a wide range of activities promoting, protecting public health. Before that he was Deputy Chief Executive of the Health & Safety Executive (HSE) where he was responsible for all of HSE's operational work, including the rail safety inspectorate (then part of HSE). A physicist by background, Justin worked as a research scientist in ICI. His later posts in ICI took him into marketing and business management in the UK and overseas, including Managing Director of ICI Katalco, a catalyst and technology licensing business. In 1998, he joined the Environment Agency as North West Regional Director where he was responsible for all the activities of the agency in North West England, and promoted enhanced partnership working across many local organisations. He currently serves on the Boards of Ombudsman Services, a not-for-profit company offering alternative dispute resolution services, and of ENTRUST, the regulator of the Landfill Communities Fund. Appointed from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2019. Ray O’Toole Ray is a non-executive member of the board. Ray was chief operating officer at National Express where he oversaw the running of commercial train franchise operations and has a clear understanding of what train operators require from the rail infrastructure. He has worked in the transport sector since the mid-1970s. From 1995-1997 he was managing director of Yorkshire Rider (a subsidiary of First Group plc) and from 1997-1999 director of bus operations and UK bus engineering Director for First Group plc. From 1999-2010 he was group chief operating officer and chief executive UK at National Express Group plc. From 2005-2009 he was a member of the British Transport Police Authority. Ray is a member of the safety regulation committee and periodic review committee. Appointed from 5 September 2011 to 4 September 2015. Alan Price Alan is an executive member of the board Alan is the director of railway planning and performance with responsibility for holding Network Rail to account for its performance and its stewardship of the national railway network infrastructure, with the objective of driving a step change in whole industry performance and efficiency for the benefit of taxpayers, passengers and freight customers who rely on Britain’s railways. Alan brings to ORR 27 years railway experience, including a deep understanding of the issues facing the industry, particularly on asset management and infrastructure delivery having recently played a significant role supporting the work of the Rail Delivery Group. Before joining ORR, Alan was the Infrastructure Director at FirstGroup. Prior to this Alan was the Director of Projects on the London Underground board having been the Director of Engineering and Asset Management at Metronet before the merger of the two organisations. He performed front line delivery roles for Bechtel on CTRL Section 1 and the West Coast Route Modernisation project and previously worked on numerous UK and European rail projects. Alan has a First Class Degree from Swansea University and an MSC from UCL. He is a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers. The Secretary of State appointed him to the Board with effect from 26 November 2012. Ian Prosser Ian is an executive member of the board Ian is the chief inspector of railways and director, railway safety. He is responsible for the work of the Railway Safety Directorate, which strives to ensure duty-holders in the railway industry manage health and safety risks effectively and thus comply with their statutory duties. The Secretary of State appointed him to the Board with effect from 26 September 2008. Ian was educated at Imperial College where he attained a first class honours degree in chemical engineering, followed by a Master of Philosophy in control engineering and operations research at Cambridge University. He has worked in safety critical industries for more than 26 years: originally in the chemical pharmaceutical and automotive industries, where the roles performed spanned a wide spectrum from works/production management to project and technology management, delivering improvements in safety and quality. Prior to joining ORR, he spent eight years in the rail industry, working for Amey Rail and Amey Operations as both technical director and Quensh director and then Metronet Rail, where he had the leading role in safety management; he was a director of both infraco companies. Ian is a member of the safety regulation committee and periodic review committee. Joanna Whittington Joanna is an executive member of the board. Joanna is responsible for ORR's longer term economic regulatory role as well as more immediate work on planning for the next funding period and the review of access charges including incentives to maximise the efficient use of capacity on the rail network. As an economic consultant specialising in transport, she is well acquainted with the rail industry and has also served as ORR's director of economics and finance leading on the periodic review in 1998. She subsequently joined the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem) in 1999. In her most recent role as partner in the markets division at Ofgem, she was responsible for regulation of the wholesale gas and electricity markets. Prior to that, Joanna held a number of senior posts including director of strategy and director of gas distribution. She has also spearheaded many vital projects to improve information and reporting standards of the industry as well as significant legislative changes. Melvyn Neate - Independent member of the audit committee The audit committee includes an independent member that must be a qualified accountant. Melvyn Neate is a qualified accountant. He recently retired as director of Internal Audit at HM Revenue and Customs where he headed a 120-strong internal audit team reporting to the chief executive and chaired the government departments' Head of Internal Audit Group. During his full-time career he has worked in local government and the private sector (Unigate Dairies, TSB and Lloyds) as well as NHS Logistics. Melvyn holds two accounting qualifications and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.  Melvyn served in 2010-11 as President of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors and currently sits on their Audit Committee. Appointed from 1 March 2012 until 30 September 2014 and reappointed from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2016. Non-executive board members' and independent committee member's pay The chair is contracted to work three days a week and is paid £120,000 per annum. Non-executive directors are paid £21,776 per annum for an average commitment of three days per month. The independent member of the audit committee is paid £4,000 per annum for an average commitment of four meetings per year. 
file_281.txt|The MHRA is a centre of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency which also includes National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) , (external link)  and Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) . (external link). Jobs across all of our centres are listed on this page. We currently have the following vacancies. More information on the benefits of working for us can be found in our section on working for the MHRA . The following links will all take you to the civil service jobs website, which lists all MHRA vacancies and you can apply online. Jobs in London 
file_723.txt|Application forms and template track access contracts Application forms and template track access contracts This page contains standard application forms and template track access contracts which should be used when making track access applications for High Speed 1 (HS1). Application forms Standard application forms should be used for all new track access contracts, and for amendments to existing track access contracts. More information on the application process is contained in our criteria and procedures for the approval of framework agreements document. Form F doc icon DOC, 155 Kb - application for approval of a freight framework agreement. Template track access contracts Template track access contracts and standard access terms are available on the HS1 website . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_575.txt|Railway operators Our health and safety assessment of railway operators Our assessment of train and freight operators' health and safety performance on Britain's mainline and minor railways, heritage lines and tramways in 2012-13. Our inspection teams specialise in passenger train operators, freight operators, heritage and light rail operators and TfL's rail businesses. Our teams apply our RM3 model to the evidence we collect from all our activities to ensure consistent and comparable in-depth assessment and analysis of duty holder's health and safety management capability. In many cases, we were pleased to identify good health and safety management arrangements although there are some specific topics where we made recommendations for improvement. We will seek to ensure that heritage operators continue to maintain the pace of change to have in place strong and effective safety management systems, staff competence and board governance arrangements. On this page: Mainline train and freight operating companies Strengths we delivered a tailored training programme for train operators on the application of our RM3 model; most operators have now been trained on its use; some TOCs and FOCs have carried out their own RM3 audits and assessments; we have captured some emerging trends from our own RM3 analysis, including examples of excellence in leadership, board governance, emergency planning, policies and procedures; PTI risk remains a major passenger fatality concern, but we have seen good evidence that duty holders are proactively exploring practical measures to reduce risks. Mainline PTI risk fell 10% in 2012-13 – see the later PTI section about the ORR/RSSB industry workshop; we found evidence of more consistently reliable train operator's sanding rates and equipment reliability to reduce low adhesion risk, this is due in part to better management focus; improvements in the suitability of individual duty holder's train protection system risk assessments and actions to upgrade train protection and warning system equipment and alarms; our occupational health strategy is beginning to yield benefits and we are working with one owner group to develop a health surveillance programme; we issued 14-safety certificates/authorisations and a further 16 are under assessment; the documentation provided by duty holders to support these was generally of a good standard; Weaknesses the industry needs to develop a more balanced and effective set to safety Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which would provide assurance and to help change behaviours; evidence of weaknesses in rolling stock maintenance, including those with the potential to result in catastrophic failures, such as deficiencies in supply chain processes contributing to causal factors in incidents. We continue to seek to address these issues in our inspection and meetings with duty  holders; examples of where our RM3 analysis highlights where more work needs to be done includes industry monitoring, audit and review; and weaknesses in third-party maintenance arrangements causing potential safety and reliability risks. We continue to address these in our inspection and meetings with duty holders planned for 2013-14. Safety performance indicators The rail industry now has a specific guidance document to complement the Health and Safety Executive's (HSE's) guidance on setting and monitoring activity and outcome indicators , often referred to as leading and lagging indicators. We are committed to helping the rail industry establish a more balanced suite of safety performance indicators (SPIs) which can help provide assurance of risk control performance, particularly those controls that are safety-critical. The majority of TOCs report that most safety-critical incidents are caused by unsafe acts or behaviours by passengers or staff. We believe that a suitable suite of SPIs could help monitor the effectiveness of operators' initiatives to improve these behaviours. Low adhesion A continued focus of our attention this year was low adhesion. All multiple unit vehicles are now fitted with sanding systems and sand depositing rates on some units are 2kg/min, which increased adhesion during the leaf-fall season. We made unannounced inspections of sanding maintenance procedures across virtually all train operators in autumn 2012 and we generally found a much improved situation, with more consistently monitored sanding deposit rates, good data recording and general management arrangements. There were some isolated pockets of poor maintenance, for example water contamination of sand in storage, low-levels of sand in on-train equipment and some slackness in maintenance record keeping. We intend to continue monitoring train operators and we will inspect how well the infrastructure manager controls low adhesion risks arising from poor railhead conditions. Train Protection and Warning System (TPWS) We continued to seek assurances from train operators that potential risk arising from on-board TPWS equipment failures have been addressed properly. We saw improvements in the suitability and sufficiency of specific risk assessments undertaken by TOCs, focused on the risks of their own TPWS operations. Following on from the on-going work we did with operators over recent years on TPWS in-service monitoring and "reset and continue" weaknesses in TPWS, we have seen that some train operators now have firm plans to upgrade their TPWS equipment and encouraging initiatives to display alarm indications via the existing Train Management Systems. Platform train interface (PTI) Train dispatch remains a concern despite improvements in 2012-13. There were no train dispatch fatalities last year but there were several incidents where passengers fell between the train and platform, including after the train had been dispatched properly and was in motion. Several of the passengers involved were impaired through alcohol and were fortunate not to sustain fatal injuries. Overall PTI risk fell by 10% in 2012-13. To help ensure the industry takes a consistent approach to the management of PTI risks, we hosted a joint-RSSB/ORR PTI workshop on 27 March 2013. This was well-attended and helped to identify a number of industry initiatives, for example, the need to have a long-term cross-industry strategy to progressively minimise existing gaps between train and platform. Large but historic platform-train gaps remain a concern, but we are encouraged by examples of improvements made to enhance platform edges. We will continue to press for reasonably practicable improvements, including reviewing options for applying new technologies and processes, and identifying and applying good practice. The Rail Accident Investigation Branch's report into the tragic fatality at Merseyrail's James Street station in October 2011 highlighted the need for duty holders to be satisfied that employees who despatch trains are properly trained and monitored to ensure they remain vigilant when carrying out their safety responsibilities during train despatch. Our inspection and investigation work into PTI issues highlighted the following: Good practice leadership, governance and policy; recruitment, training and competence; competence management system - we are seeing an improving picture because of the benefits of computerised systems; and some examples of very good standards of train despatch. Areas for improvement risk assessments should include local factors, be realistic and genuinely have staff involvement; make use of techniques to better monitor and improve passenger and staff behaviours, such as the use of CCTV and more effective unobtrusive monitoring; and have systems in place to effectively monitor fatigue. Driver management We continue to be concerned about the effects of interrupted concentration and distraction for drivers. We are pressing train operators to consider what further steps can be taken to help understand why train drivers become distracted as they approach signals; RSSB has recently begun further research on this. In addition, RSSB is considering research into the use of in-cab CCTV monitoring to aid incident investigation. Train driver distraction by the use of a personal mobile phone was a likely contributor to at least one serious collision during the year. We support the enhanced use of remote data recorders on trains, to help managers identify emerging trends in poor behaviour and take action to prevent operational incidents. The industry has improved its management of fatigue and we have seen examples where hours worked by individuals have been restructured to reduce fatigue risks. Emergency planning Generally, we found evidence of a good appreciation and capability of emergency planning issues. We saw good practice in emergency preparedness during the Olympics with increased passenger numbers. However, weaknesses still exist including some lengthy failed-train recovery times and some examples of inadequate management of large numbers of passengers during service disruption. Rolling stock We continue to be concerned about weaknesses in the management system that can result in components falling from a moving train. In 2012-13, we took enforcement action against one operator when train cover panels became detached from a passenger train when it was in-service. This will remain a focus for us in future inspections and contacts with train operators. We inspected another train operator's rolling stock maintenance arrangements following a number of incidents, including a train panel becoming detached and the failure of a drive-shaft due to a low-level of oil. We found poor maintenance arrangements but we did not take enforcement action; we required the train operator to improve its maintenance arrangements. The industry has taken positive steps to reduce the number of final drive-shaft failures and detachments on Pacer units, by increasing the use of temperature monitoring on final drive-shafts to mitigate the risk from failure. We continue to encourage the industry to use pro-active monitoring processes that can provide early indication of potential failures which might lead to catastrophic events. We note that a persistent level of deficiencies in the supply chain processes is a contributory causal factor in failure incidents. This is an area which the industry continues to find challenging and we will continue to encourage it to find a workable solution. Health strategies Last year we reported that a number of train operators have produced strategies to address occupational health issues and we believe this work is now yielding industry benefits. This year we encouraged an operator owner group to develop their health strategy and produce a health surveillance programme across their business. Freight-specific operations Safety performance over the last year has remained relatively unchanged compared to previous years. There have been a number of significant freight train derailments; some were related to issues of wagon loading or suspension operation, but many were due to poor track condition. The industry has worked together to reduce derailment risk from suspension systems and is installing technology to detect poorly loaded wagons. We will continue to seek improvement. Most freight train operators have now adopted the RM3 model to assess their safety management systems which is encouraging and we continue to support this process. Both we and the industry have put a significant amount of effort into preparing for the start of the Entities in Charge of Maintenance (ECM) Regulations for freight wagons. We certified nine organisations as ECMs during 2012-13 in advance of the 31 May 2013 deadline. We believe compliance with these regulations will drive safer freight operations. We supported the creation and now attend the new National Freight Safety Group and other cross-industry groups to promote health and safety, encourage the industry to focus on priority issues and to pick up intelligence and feedback. London Underground Limited and other Transport for London (TfL) companies Key messages the findings of our extensive pre-Olympic inspection work confirmed the safe and reliable delivery of services by TfL duty holders; they had all made comprehensive and thorough preparations for the event. We are pleased to note the efforts made to build a post-Olympic legacy based on learning best  practice changes from the Olympic period; safety performance of TfL duty holders (LUL, London Overground (LOROL) and Docklands Light Railway (DLR)) remains high; as a result we allocate less of our resource to these duty holders compared to the mainline railway; and passenger numbers continue to grow steadily and demand for services remains a strong pressure on all of TfL's duty holders. What we found Railway operations We continue to monitor carefully the number of potentially higher risk SPADs on LUL, although the long-established train protection system continued to mitigate effectively the consequences of SPADs by automatically bringing trains to a halt. We note the roll-out of automatic train operation (ATO) should result in a progressive decline in SPADs as traditionally recorded. ATO is now fully functional on the Jubilee line, has been updated on the Victoria line to a modern standard and has started to be rolled out on the Northern line. We note LUL's move to align its SPAD-assessment descriptors with those of the mainline railway. We have continued to monitor LUL's introduction of S-stock trains on the Metropolitan line and the start of their roll-out onto other sub-surface lines. During 2012-13, we noted a numerically small but definite increase in the number of PTI-related incidents involving S-Stock trains at a small number of stations with curved platforms. Next year we will continue to monitor LUL's efforts to identify the underlying causes of these incidents and their measures to improve safety. We were pleased by DLR's continued safe operation and their proactive early engagement with us before starting the re-franchising process. LOROL successfully commissioned and brought into operation the extension to Clapham Junction. This demonstrates the value and effectiveness of its UKAS-recognised driver training programme and competency management system. The London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games Since 2009 we have carried out specific planned inspection work to test the effectiveness of health and safety preparations for the 2012 London Olympic and Paralympics games. The successful delivery of the 2012 games and the reliable and safe transport of record passenger numbers confirmed the comprehensive robust arrangements of our pre-games findings. We have been assured that as a part of the post-games legacy that LUL is making efforts to permanently adopt 'blue light' emergency response vehicles to more quickly get to and deal with incidents and to provide permanent access ramps for passengers with disabilities at 16-specific stations, with more planned for 2013-14. Worker safety We continued to inspect a range of operational activities at LUL, LOROL and DLR/Serco depot's risk control measures. Generally, we found a high-standard of safety and risk control, but we served an improvement notice on LUL's Ruislip depot because of ineffective precautions to prevent on-train electrical equipment from being energised accidentally, when work was being done nearby. TfL completed timely improvements as required by our notice. We identified a number of other weaknesses in safe working in depots and we will continue our inspections in 2013-14. Heritage railways Key messages increasingly operators accept the need for good board governance and competence management; safety management systems (SMS) are now largely in place but further work remains; we will continue to ensure the pace of improvement is maintained; the next step is to ensure operators' refine their SMSs to improve their appropriateness, effectiveness and application; and the sector has further work to do to improve its staff's competence in addition to the work it has already done. The year was overshadowed by the death of a volunteer guard at the North Yorkshire Moors Railway. After a careful review of the evidence in the case both we and the British Transport Police both concluded that no criminal offences had been committed and no formal enforcement action was taken. We are following up RAIB's investigation recommendations into the incident. During 2012-13, we concluded two prosecution cases against heritage railways, served one prohibition and three improvement notices . Following our work with the mainline railway, we are now reviewing the use of RRVs by minor railways. We checked automatic level crossings on heritage lines to ensure compliance with legal requirements and good practice; we continue to focus on level crossing risk on heritage lines. Generally, we believe that safety standards and governance arrangements in the sector have improved and we welcome the increased level of leadership, guidance and direction provided by the Heritage Railway Association (HRA). ORR and HRA held a number of successful joint seminars for directors of heritage railways to promote best practice in risk management in 2012-13. We will seek opportunities to collaborate further with HRA to ensure all heritage operators have strong and effective safety management systems, staff competence and board governance arrangements in place. We worked closely with the HRA to develop guidance on the inspection and maintenance of steam locomotive boilers which will help to reduce risks of catastrophic failures in this area. The publication of HRA's guidance on level crossing sighting-distances provides a significant contribution to deal with a major potential hazard on minor railways. We look to heritage operators to have more robust and credible complaint-handling processes to deal with complaints from staff, volunteers, passengers and the public. Tramways Key messages good standards of safety performance, but no room for complacency; and considerable opportunity for the industry to cooperate collectively to deliver common guidance, standards and good practice. Britain's tramways are some of the safest in Europe, but further design-focused safety improvements can be made. Evidence of collisions between trams and pedestrians on crossings remains an area of concern, such as the death of a pedestrian on Nottingham tram system in November 2012. While post-incident reviews often show that lack of attention on the part of pedestrians is normally a root-cause of such incidents, we recognise that tramway designers and operators could look critically at crossing layouts and tram design to understand how to better minimise possible causes and the effects of collisions. We worked on extensions of tramways in Manchester, Birmingham and Nottingham this year and provided statutory consent for significant new lines being opened for public operation in Manchester. We continue to monitor the on-going construction of the Edinburgh tramway. We look to UK Tram, the industry trade body, to complete its reorganisation in 2013-14 and become a respected industry leader and the sector's sole source of guidance for the development of new tramways and the custodian of sector–specific standards and guidance for technical and operational practice. We have not needed to take formal enforcement action with any of Britain's tramways in the last 12-months, but a number of incidents remain under on-going investigation – see annex 1 . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_678.txt|Control period 5 Control period 5 (CP5) This page sets out documentation relevant to control period 5 (CP5), including the monitoring of Network Rail's delivery of its outputs. Periodic review 2013 (PR13) documentation is available separately. Network Rail's CP5 enhancements delivery plan (EDP) Requests by Network Rail to amend the control period 5 (CP5) enhancements delivery plan (EDP) under the change control mechanism. 
file_194.txt|The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Medicines, devices and conditions This section provides information on specific products and conditions. The products include steroid medicines, hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and information on the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this My medicine: From laboratory to pharmacy shelf It takes an average of ten years for a chemical compound to make the journey from the laboratory to reach the pharmacy shelf as a medicine. This section provides links to information to help you find out more about the life cycle of medicines from their first scientific discovery through to licensing and ongoing monitoring. Go to the my medicine page Reporting safety problems It is crucial that issues with medicines and medical devices are reported to the MHRA, as this allows us to monitor the safety and efficacy of products, and take action if necessary. This page provides links to information about reporting problems with medicines, vaccines and devices. Go to the page on reporting safety problems Buying counterfeit medicines and medicines online Counterfeit medicines and medicines bought online are an increasing problem, both in the UK and globally. This page provides links to information about the risks of buying medicines over the internet and counterfeit medicines and devices. Go to the page on counterfeit medicines and buying medicines online Herbal and homeopathic medicines Herbal and homeopathic medicines and substance are medicines in their own right. As with any other medicine they are likely to have an effect on the body and should be used with care. Go to the page on herbal and homeopathic medicines Medicines and your family This page provides links to further information about the use of medicines in pregnancy and for babies and young children. 
file_436.txt|
file_46.txt|Closing a scheme Understand and inform your clients' workforce To help automatically enrol your clients workforce you’ll need to understand the type of workforce they have and what communications will need to be sent to them. 
file_395.txt|COSHH and bakers - key messages Substances hazardous to health in baking include: flour dust; improver dusts containing enzymes etc; dusts from protein-containing ingredients  such as egg, soya; spices, citrus oils and flavour concentrates; cleaning and disinfectant products. Dermatitis may result from some bakery tasks, and if hands are wet many times a day or for a lot of the time. Control measures include: careful working to avoid raising clouds of  dust; dust extraction; respirator for very dusty tasks; skin checks. Example: Flour dust Flour dust can cause asthma when breathed in. You must reduce exposure to flour dust as far below the WEL of 10 mg/m3 as is reasonably practicable. You normally need to use health surveillance (Check employees health for any adverse effects related to work. May involve checking skin for dermatitis or asking questions about breathing and may need to done by a doctor or nurse.) Help in finding the right controls is on the Bakers and asthma website . Control information for flour dust appears in the following information sheets available from the COSHH essentials web tool : 
file_459.txt|Health and safety regulatory approach Health and safety regulatory approach Our regulation focuses on business risk, recognising that business risk includes commercial risks and health and safety risks. Health and safety is not an overhead or an optional add-on. It is a fundamental requirement – and it is good for business. What we do The rail industry in mainland Britain is made up of many businesses. We oversee those businesses and how they work together to keep the rail system safe. A business will be safe if its people manage risks effectively every day. Our role is to motivate businesses to have excellent health and safety management and to check that they identify and assess risks properly, control them effectively and comply with the law. We recognise that any business which either creates a risk or is partly responsible for a shared risk, must effectively manage that risk. This is irrespective of that business's profitability, availability of resources, or how long any contract they hold has left to run. Although ORR is also their economic regulator, this applies as much to ORR's dealings with Network Rail and HS1 Ltd as with any other companies. As the economic regulator for Network Rail, we decide what it has to deliver (its outputs) and how much this should cost. When we do this, we take safety into account so that the government's priorities are met. Quite simply, these are: a rail industry that maintains a high level of safety controls its costs and delivers both value for money for the taxpayer a good service to its customers Our focus We expect businesses to control risks by having an excellent safety management system. We expect leaders in the rail industry to understand their risks and how to measure their performance in controlling these. Our major concern is to secure high standards of protection from train-crash risk without businesses losing sight of other risks that need to be controlled, such as asbestos or falls from a height. We look for evidence of what is being done by businesses to control health and safety risks. We actively seek evidence through our inspections, investigations of incidents and permissions for certain activities. And we strike a balance on the resources we allocate to each. At all times, we act fairly and compare evidence against consistent standards of what businesses should be doing. ORR can use its enforcement powers to require improvement if that is needed. We will not settle for mediocrity or a culture of complacency. We will always ask whether improvement is needed, but we recognise that the law sets minimum standards and that an excellent organisation is one that delivers compliance with the law efficiently and consistently. We encourage excellence, but will not enforce beyond the standard set down in law. A railway system which is designed with safety in mind from the outset is more likely to deliver a railway that can be operated safely and efficiently for years to come. We expect careful thought during the design process to eliminate risks or reduce them where possible. We work with other European regulators to help deliver sensible regulation and a common European approach. This is so that trains can run through the Channel Tunnel to British and European destinations safely, and so that trains built in one country can operate in another. Like our European neighbours, we keep the legal framework for safety on the railway under review and can propose changes if necessary. We do this in line with the principles of better regulation, which underpin all that we do. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_927.txt|Speech given by Richard Price, Chief executive, to the Future of Rail conference. 26 Nov 2014 ORR is conducting a review of how retailers sell rail tickets. 30 Sep 2014 Speech given by Elise Weeder, Head of Regulatory Economics to the RFG AGM and annual policy meeting 10 Sep 2014 Article written by Ian Prosser - Director, railway safety. 18 Aug 2014 Speech given by Anna Walker, Chair, to the Rail Freight Group Conference. 4 Jun 2014 
file_263.txt|This section provides information about current safety issues associated with herbal medicines. Advice to manufacturers, suppliers and practitioners of herbal medicine It would be helpful if you could note information about each safety issue and follow any advice or requests which are made to protect public safety. Advice to consumers On any issue where no specific advice is given to consumers please follow this general advice if you are currently taking the product: you are advised to discontinue use and consult your pharmacist or doctor when speaking to your doctor of pharmacist you may find it helpful to take a copy of this MHRA advice about the product with you you should continue to take any medication prescribed by your doctor. In 2008 the Herbal Medicines Advisory Committee, (the body that provides independent expert advice to the Government on herbal medicines) asked the MHRA to make available an updated summary document: Public Health Risk with Herbal Medicines: an Overview (782Kb) (July 2008). The aim of doing this is to promote wider understanding of herbal safety issues. Latest herbal safety updates 
file_308.txt|Your browser does not support iframes. Export and Save 
file_653.txt|About the periodic review 2013 (PR13) What is the periodic review? Every five years, we review Network Rail's Strategic Business Plan to ensure that it: delivers what Westminster and Scottish governments want is affordable and offers value for money; and puts the needs of passengers and freight users at the heart of our railways. We started the periodic review for 2014-19, known as control period 5 (CP5), in 2011. We did this by holding a series of public events across Britain and consulting stakeholders, including passenger and consumer groups, train and freight operating companies and local authorities. After an extensive period of further consultation, we published our draft determination in June 2013 and asked people for their views on our proposals. We have now published our final determination, which sets out what we want Network Rail to do in CP5. Our decisions will help to determine how the railway improves and develops safely over the next five years – a time when they have a vital role to play in supporting the national and local economy. Find out more about how we hold Network Rail to account Delivering value for passengers and taxpayers Britain's railways are vital to the economy. More people and more goods move by train today than they have for many years, with passenger journeys up by more than 50% over the last decade. Last year alone, 1.5 billion passengers used the network – an 8% increase on the previous year. That's 24,000 trains per day. While a modern, expanding railway is good for the country, it's important that passengers and taxpayers get value for the contribution they make. Over the next five years, Network Rail will need to work harder than ever to ensure maximum value for money – with passenger numbers set to increase by 14% and freight volume by 4%. While there have been real improvements in performance and efficiency over the past few years, there are still too many occasions when the results aren't as good as they should be. We've listened very closely to the industry and its customers' views. We've also looked at Network Rail's performance from 2009-13 to see where they have delivered, where performance has not met targets, and what we need to ask them to do for the next five years. Because Network Rail did not always perform as well as we wanted in this control period, we'll need a change of approach next time around. Our review looked at Network Rail's Strategic Business Plan in significant depth and detail, drilling down on costs at route level and focusing on major improvement projects and investment in replacing infrastructure such as track, buildings and bridges. We've also looked at Network Rail's proposed performance for the network in terms of punctuality and reliability, as well as the safety aspects of the company's proposals. Based on this analysis, and after listening carefully to what Network Rail and other stakeholders have told us, we've asked the company to run the network for £38bn from 2014-19 – that's £1.7bn less than it originally proposed. We've listened when Network Rail has told us it needs more money – and where this has been proved to be justified, we've allocated extra funds. We've also asked it to do things a bit differently in future and will be taking a much closer look at the business in some key areas. For example, we've asked Network Rail to: improve punctuality levels for all trains and reduce severe delays and cancellations on long distance routes; make the network more resilient to extreme weather – including hot temperatures, floods, ice and snow improve day-to-day maintenance and develop best practice, moving from a 'find and fix' to a 'predict and prevent' way of working; and deliver planned volumes of network renewals, including track and other equipment such as signalling. ORR will also do things differently in CP5 to help Network Rail secure better results. It's all about getting down to the basics of what drives performance and what needs to be done to make it better. If this is gripped early in the next control period, then performance will improve and money will be spent more efficiently. More specifically, we will be: looking even more closely at Network Rail's performance, particularly how they are managing, maintaining and renewing the network; checking closely Network Rail's progress on making the network more resilient to adverse weather; being more specific about what is required to improve asset management – and what the priorities should be; getting better information from Network Rail to help us decide whether it is performing as well as it possibly can; and intervening at an early stage, so that emerging problems don't have the chance to escalate. We will be very clear with Network Rail what is required at the start of the five-year period, but if its performance improves, then we will be willing to change our approach to monitoring performance. How the rail industry is funded Total income for 2011-12: £12.5bn (in 2011-12 prices). This figure is made up of: £7.2bn from passengers £1.3bn from commercial operations such as station shops and car parks £4.0bn in subsidy from the taxpayer £64m from freight 
file_923.txt|Towards a more efficient railway – Richard Price’s Beesley Lecture At the Institute of Economic Affairs' Annual Beesley Lecture in London, Richard Price, Chief Executive at the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR), emphasised that the rail industry needs the freedom to innovate, to deliver better value for money, and to make rail more attractive for passengers and freight. 
file_72.txt|Back to top Quality criteria When deciding whether a scheme is good quality, you should focus on certain key areas including simplicity, investment options, managing investments, value for money, the provider and communications. For more information, see our guides for financial advisers and accountants: Accountant's guide to pension scheme selection and automatic enrolment (PDF, 64kb, 7 pages) The six DC principles The key areas are encompassed within six principles that we expect all DC schemes to adopt during their design, set up and ongoing operation: Principle 1 – schemes are designed to be durable, fair and deliver good outcomes for members Principle 2 – a comprehensive scheme governance framework is established at set-up, with clear accountabilities and responsibilities agreed and made transparent Principle 3 – those who are accountable for scheme decisions and activity understand their duties and are fit and proper to carry them out Principle 4 – schemes benefit from effective governance and monitoring through their full lifecycle Principle 5 – schemes are well administered with timely, accurate and comprehensive processes and records Principle 6 – communication to members is designed and delivered to ensure members are able to make informed decisions about their retirement savings. DC quality features Those designing and running DC schemes should be able to demonstrate that they have embedded 31 DC quality features. These set out in further detail the activities, behaviours and control processes which we expect to see in DC schemes that are more likely to deliver good member outcomes. The quality features underpin the six DC principles as follows. Principle 1: essential characteristics Those running schemes will: ensure that all members receive value for money ensure that all costs and charges borne by members are transparent and communicated clearly at point of selection to the employer to enable value for money comparisons to be made and to assess the fairness to members of the costs and charges understand and put arrangements in place to mitigate the impact to members of business and/or commercial risks predominantly invest in assets admitted to trading on regulated markets: where unregulated investment options are offered, it must be demonstrable why it was appropriate to offer those investment options understand the levels of financial protection available to members and carefully consider situations where compensation is not available ensure that schemes offer flexible contribution structures that give members the option to pay more ensure that a default strategy is provided which is suitable for the needs of the membership ensure that the number and risk profile of investment options offered reflects the needs of the membership ensure that investment objectives for each investment option are identified and documented in order for them to be regularly monitored ensure that a process is provided which helps members to optimise their income at retirement. Principle 2: establishing governance Those running schemes will: ensure that sufficient time and resources are identified and made available for maintaining the ongoing governance of the scheme support employers in understanding their responsibilities for providing accurate information, on a timely basis, to scheme advisers and service providers ensure that accountability and delegated responsibilities for all elements of running the scheme are identified, documented and understood by those involved establish and maintain procedures and controls to ensure the effectiveness and performance of the services offered by scheme advisers and service providers (also under principle 4) establish and maintain adequate internal controls which mitigate significant operational, financial, regulatory and compliance risks (also under principle 4) ensure that arrangements are established to review the ongoing appropriateness of investment options. Principle 3: people understand their duties and be fit and proper to carry them out act in the best interests of all beneficiaries be able to effectively demonstrate how they manage conflicts of interest. Principle 4: ongoing governance and monitoring Those running schemes will: regularly review their skills and competencies to demonstrate they understand their duties and are fit and proper to carry them out establish and maintain procedures and controls to ensure the effectiveness and performance of the services offered by scheme advisers and service providers (also under principle 2) establish and maintain adequate internal controls which mitigate significant operational, financial, regulatory and compliance risks (also under principle 2) take appropriate steps to monitor contributions and resolve contributions which have not been paid in accordance with the payment schedule in full on or before the due date monitor the ongoing suitability of the default strategy for the membership ensure that the performance of each investment option, including the default strategy, is regularly assessed against stated investment objectives. Principle 5: administration Those running schemes will: ensure that member data across all membership categories is complete and accurate and is subject to regular data evaluation ensure that core scheme financial transactions are processed promptly and accurately ensure that administration systems are able to cope with scale and are underpinned by adequate business and disaster recovery arrangements. Principle 6: communication to members Those running schemes will: ensure that all costs and charges borne by members are clearly disclosed to members ensure that members are regularly informed that their level of contributions is a key factor in determining the overall size of their pension fund ensure that scheme communication is accurate, clear, understandable and engaging and it addresses the needs of members from joining to retirement ensure that members are regularly made aware of their current investment strategy and what this means for them clearly communicate to members the options available at retirement in a way which supports them in choosing the option most appropriate to their circumstances. 
file_383.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_655.txt|2014-19 regulation Regulating Network Rail 2014-19 As the regulator for Network Rail, we decide how the company is funded to meet the priorities of the governments. We will make sure that it meets its obligation to provide a safe, high-performing, and efficient railway in CP5 (2014-19). How we'll monitor Network Rail While our preferred approach is to create incentives for the industry to work together to deliver greater efficiency without too much intervention, we will also regulate through a mixture of formal review and assessment, target-setting and benchmarking, performance and safety monitoring, investigation and enforcement action. Due to poor performance in some key areas during CP4, we will have to take a more hands-on approach in key areas until such time as we're satisfied that Network Rail is performing sustainably at the required level – and can therefore be given greater freedom to manage its business in future. We will review Network Rail's and the rest of the industry's performance in health and safety, and we'll publish them in the Annual Health and Safety report . We will monitor Network Rail's performance in areas such as reliability, punctuality, improvement work and customer service – and publish our findings on our website in Network Rail Monitor . Network Rail has fallen short of key performance targets in many sectors, particularly on long distance routes. We need to see a significant improvement in CP5 to make up the lost ground and generate real momentum towards delivering the improvements that  Network Rail has been funded to achieve: We will set targets and priorities to assess Network Rail's progress in areas such as financial performance and efficiency. As part of this effort, we will publish an annual Efficiency and financial assessment of Network Rail . We will monitor Network Rail to ensure it complies with the conditions of its Network Licence, such as effective stewardship of the network, cooperating with stakeholders, providing clear information on performance. If Network Rail is at risk of not meeting its targets or we think it is in breach of its Licence, then we will intervene proactively and at an early stage to try and prevent the problem. If appropriate, we may enforce compliance through sanctions, such as fines – although we would prefer for the company to be delivering its business and investing its resources in ways that make this unnecessary. Taking enforcement action We want to see Network Rail succeed and, wherever possible, we will work closely with the company to help it deliver. This approach has worked in the past – to give just one example, 2012 saw a 12% reduction in the number of delays to freight services after we worked with Network Rail to set up a recovery board to resolve the underlying issues. But when we have to, we will intervene with enforcement action – including financial penalties – just as we have in the past. For example, if Network Rail fails to deliver its performance target for long distance rail routes in 2013-14, it faces a substantial financial penalty, up to £1.5m for each 0.1% it falls below target. We will also have greater flexibility in performance measures to make sure Network Rail responds to what the train companies actually need from them. Providing transparent information Part of our mission is to provide stakeholders and passengers with better information so they can hold Network Rail to account for themselves. As well as the reports we publish about the company's performance against our targets, we will also publish the following: The GB Rail Industry Financial report : financial data from train operators, Network Rail and government showing how the railways are funded and highlighting how money flows across the rail industry, helping to drive better value for money. Detailed train performance figures : including the number of trains arriving within one minute of schedule, across all routes. These figures give passengers a more accurate picture of train performance than the normal 'on time' measure of trains arriving within 5-10 minutes of schedule. Area Outputs 1. Freight Delivery Metric (FDM) measures the percentage of freight trains arriving at their destination within 15 minutes of scheduled time, covering delays for which Network Rail is responsible. 2. ETCS is the agreed future train control and command system for the European main line network. It forms part of the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS). 3. Note that safety is not a devolved responsibility. All safety related outputs, indicators and enablers therefore apply to England & Wales and Scotland. Train service reliability Annual target for the percentage of trains on time (measured by PPM) for England & Wales and Scotland, with 92.5% on time by March 2019. All franchised operators in England & Wales to reach 90% PPM by March 2019, except Virgin Trains which has a combined target of 88% PPM and 2.9% CaSL and East Coast which has a combined target of 88% PPM and 4.2% CaSL. First Great Western will have a minimum of 88% PPM for its long distance services. Annual target for the percentage of trains cancelled or very late in England & Wales (measured by CaSL), with no more than 2.2% in this category by March 2019. Annual target of 92.5% of freight trains on time (measured by the Freight Delivery Metric 1) Enhancements Wide range of improvement projects completed. Delivery milestones will be published in March 2014 delivery plan alongside development milestones for early stage projects. Includes funding for initial ETCS 2 cab fitment. Safety Legal safety obligations to be met Network Rail required to deliver a plan to maximise the reduction in risks of accidents at level crossings, using £99m ring-fenced fund3. This fund combines £67m from the DfT HLOS and £32m of further funding. Disruption to passengers and freight caused by engineering works Disruption reduced by 8% for passengers and 17% for freight in 2019 compared to 2014, supported by an extension of funding for '7 day railway' projects. Network capability Track mileage and layout, line speed, gauge, route availability, electrification at least maintained, and improved where there are enhancement works. Stations 
file_968.txt|LC numbers: 4, 27, 108 Executive summary Purpose of intervention The purpose of this intervention was to undertake inspections and information exchange meetings at Hunterston B [HNB] power station in line with the planned inspection programme contained in the HNB Integrated Intervention Strategy [IIS]. Interventions Carried Out by ONR As part of this intervention, I undertook a Licence Condition 4 compliance inspection relating to restrictions on nuclear matter on site. I sampled the station licence compliance arrangements and their implementation relating to the receipt of nuclear fuel onto Hunterston B and the storage of new and irradiated fuel on the licensed site. During the intervention I sampled the Station’s compliance against Technical Specification limits and conditions derived from the Hunterston B safety case for storage of irradiated fuel in the buffer store. I examined records relating to the receipt, processing and storage of fuel on Hunterston B via the Station’s proprietary material accountancy system. I examined the station’s arrangements for compliance with Licence Condition 27 associated with safety mechanisms, devices and circuits. I undertook information exchange meetings with the Station Director; Independent Nuclear Assurance and the station’s Western Link project manager. Explanation of Judgement if Safety System Not Judged to be Adequate No safety case informed system based inspection was undertaken during this intervention. Key Findings, Inspector's Opinions and Reasons for Judgements Made I examined the station’s high-level arrangements for compliance against Licence Condition 4 and confirmed clear alignment to the company arrangements. The arrangements for management of nuclear fuel and organisational responsibilities are auditable and cascade clearly from the company arrangements. I verified that these documents adequately cross-reference against other licence condition compliance arrangements that underpin Fuel Route activities including LC17 (Management Systems), LC25 (Operational Records), LC12 (Duly authorised and other suitably qualified and experienced persons), and LC23 (Operating Rules). The station Fuel Route Group Head presented a cogent description of the Fuel Route process and the safety envelope for ensuring continued adequate cooling of decay tubes. I sampled the station’s visible safety case for storage of irradiated fuel elements in the Supplementary Buffer Store [SBS].  I examined limits and conditions of operation relating to CO2 pressure and verified alignment between the underlying dropped fuel safety case; visible safety case and the associated operating rules.  I undertook a plant inspection of the SBS valve box through which decay tube pressures are managed.  Overall based upon my sample the standards of configuration control were judged to be adequate; however I advised the station to consider a more judicious use of padlocking arrangements on key system valves to differentiate normal plant from safety significant components. I sampled plant maintenance schedule records and confirmed that the examination, inspection, maintenance and testing requirements had been met for the plant items sampled. I judge that the LC4 element of this inspection is adequate and as a result I have scored it as 3 (adequate) through the IIS. I undertook a high-level inspection of the station’s arrangements for compliance with Licence Condition 27. A detailed inspection was not possible at this stage in light of ongoing dialogue between ONR and EDF NGL at a corporate level on increasing the transparency with which NGL is compliant with LC27. I sought and received sufficient assurance from the Nuclear Safety Group Head that the station is demonstrably compliant with LC27 in an implicit manner, by virtue of safety mechanism ‘availability’ requirements enshrined within Technical Specifications and the ‘good working order’ requirement embodied within the plant maintenance schedule [MITS]. I was assured that the station has an adequate understanding of Licence Condition 27 and how the station ensures its compliance. I judge that the LC27 element of this inspection is adequate and as a result I have scored it as 3 (adequate) through the IIS. The intervention was performed in line with ONR’s guidance requirements (as described in our technical inspection guides ) in the areas inspected. Further information on intervention ratings Conclusion of Intervention I judged that Hunterston B to be demonstrably compliant with its arrangements under Licence Condition 4 and Licence Condition 27, justifying IIS Ratings of 3 – Adequate for both. There are no findings from this inspection that could significantly undermine nuclear safety and no change to the planned interventions and inspections of Hunterston B. 
file_980.txt|Open consultation Help us improve GOV.UK Please don't include any personal or financial information,   for example your National Insurance or credit card numbers. What you were doing 
file_494.txt|Rolling stock companies Rolling stock companies Rolling stock companies (ROSCOs) own the actual trains that run on the rails. It is their job to work with the train operating and freight companies to determine the sorts of engines, carriage and trucks required to deliver the desired customer services. ROSCOs also have a responsibility to help develop services by phasing out old and aged rolling stock to make way for modern, more convenient and safer trains. ROSCOs either lease stock to train operating or the train building companies. Leasing companies 
file_207.txt|News 17 December 2014 MHRA will be closed between 4pm on Wednesday 24 December and 10am on Monday 29 December. Our Customer Services Helpline (020 3080 6000) will be open from 9am to 4pm on 24 December, and from 10am to 4pm on 29, 30 and 31 December. MHRA returns to standard opening hours on 2 January 2015. Page last modified: 		 		18 December 2014 
file_895.txt|Statistics Statistics At ORR, we publish a range of statistics about railway performance, rail usage and safety – to support performance evaluation, analysis and decision-making for the railway industry. The range of statistical products that we produce reflects the needs of our users. For those with a general interest in rail, we produce statistical releases that provide commentary and interpretation on trends across a variety of rail-related themes.  For those more interested in more detailed data, the data tables are available on the ORR data portal. Statistical releases We publish regular commentary on rail statistics under eight themes – including performance and safety. These releases are designed to help the user interpret the data and are accredited National Statistics. Access the latest statistical releases Data portal The ORR data portal provides online access to our database of railway statistics. You can access data on topics such as safety, passenger satisfaction and performance. 
file_103.txt|Independent trustee register Managing your hybrid scheme If you run a hybrid scheme you need to manage the defined benefit (DB) elements as if they were a DB scheme and manage the defined contribution (DC) elements as if they were a DC scheme. Hybrid schemes can be complex. You need to have an in-depth understanding of the scheme structure and the benefits the scheme offers. On this page Ensuring robust systems and processes Key points You need to have an in-depth understanding of the scheme structure so that you can manage potential risks. Ensure you have robust systems and processes in place so that you can separately identify and manage the assets attributable to each type of benefit. Speak with your advisers if you need help understanding the structure and governance of your hybrid scheme, along with the benefits you offer to your members. Types of hybrid scheme Hybrid schemes can be complex. They include a combination of DB and DC benefits. Examples of hybrid schemes include: separate DB and DC sections under one trust DB scheme with a DC underpin, eg a scheme that will pay a member the better of their DB or DC benefit DC scheme with a contracted out element on a DB basis DB schemes with a DC top-up. Back to top Potential risks to members To manage a hybrid scheme you need to have an in-depth understanding of the scheme structure and the benefits the scheme offers. If you do not understand and manage the scheme appropriately, members will face a number of potential risks: lack of governance unclear and incorrect member communication incorrect benefits and funding levels inappropriate investment strategies Back to top Checking the status of money purchase benefits The statutory definition of money purchase benefits changed with effect from 24 July 2014. Your scheme may be affected by this change if it offers benefits that have the potential to develop a funding deficit, ie non-money purchase benefits. You should review the trust deed and rules to check whether your scheme, as a result of the benefits it may offer to members, is affected by the changes. Take legal advice where necessary, especially if there is any doubt over the nature of benefits offered by your scheme. For more information, see our statement on changes to the definition of a money purchase benefit: Statement Changes to the definition of money purchase benefits (PDF, 69kb, 5 pages) Published: July 2014 Back to top Ensuring robust systems and processes You need to exercise good governance over your scheme by having robust systems and processes in place. This will ensure you can separately identify the assets attributable to each type of benefit. There are ten key actions you should carry out. Ensure you understand the different members’ benefit entitlements. This should also include understanding the level of protection offered to each type of scheme member. Review your governance arrangements over the different benefit elements to ensure that they are sufficiently rigorous. Ensure adequate time is spent on DC-specific matters, including assessing the need for a trustee committee to address DC matters. Check the robustness and adequacy of your scheme’s internal controls over the different benefit types. This should include regular monitoring of administrative processes and management information. The controls in a hybrid scheme should be sufficient to address the individual DC members’ risks, eg regular reconciliation of assets and cash flows at DC member level. Ensure the assets for DB and DC elements are clearly identifiable and, if possible, held separately. Check that scheme accounts separately show assets and liabilities allocated to individual members and those which are not. Understand the safeguards available for the different assets against losses arising from operational, fraud and insolvency failures and how tracing rules would apply for mixing DB and DC assets. Assess your investment advisers’ and third-party administrators’ skills on DB and DC benefits separately, recognising that different skill sets are required for each benefit element. Check that our Exchange database contains the correct information to calculate the Pension Protection Fund levy – check with your scheme actuary and advisers, if necessary. When winding up your scheme ensure you understand the process, how you may need to treat members’ different entitlements and how this interacts with your scheme rules. Work with your employee benefit consultants to clarify scheme design structures. Check with them that the scheme documentation and communications accurately and coherently explain the scheme design and benefits to members. Ask your auditors to report on their testing of DB and DC entitlements and the separation of assets between DB and DC benefits. In general, you must manage the DB elements of your hybrid scheme as if they were a DB scheme and manage the DC elements as if they were a DC scheme. See our sections on managing your DB scheme and managing your DC scheme . If you’re unsure what actions are appropriate to your hybrid scheme, you should speak with your advisers to gain assurance that you understand the structure and governance of your hybrid scheme, along with the benefits you offer to your members. 
file_552.txt|Train driving licences & certificates Train driving licences and certificates Any new driver must have a train driver licence and certificate to drive on the mainline railway. Existing drivers will need both by 29 October 2018. Doctors, psychometric assessors and training and examination centres who assess new train drivers must be recognised by ORR.  Details of the requirements and how to apply for licences or recognition are below. Legal requirements The Train Driving Licences and Certificates Regulations 2010 (TDLCR) sets out the legal requirements of the licensing and certification system for train drivers in Great Britain. This brings into force the requirements of European Commission Directive 2007/59/EC on the certification of train drivers. A revised guide pdf icon PDF, 2,245 Kb to TDLCR was published in July 2014. The Directive forms part of the European Commission's plan to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of Europe's railways. The key objectives of both the Directive and TDLCR are to: make it easier for cross-border rail services to operate; create a more flexible labour market for train drivers; introduce common standards of driver across Europe; and increase public confidence in the rail system through the requirement for certain groups of train drivers to hold a licence. Licence applications Train drivers or their employers can apply for a train driver licence. The application form doc icon DOC, 238 Kb and guidance pdf icon PDF, 88 Kb on completing it are available to download. Applications should be emailed to RSD Admin or sent to: Railway Safety Directorate WC2B 4AN Recognition of assessors Doctors or psychometric assessors who carry out the medical and psychological fitness assessments (under Regulation 8) of train drivers must apply to be recognised by ORR. Training and examination centres who train and examine the professional knowledge and competence (under Regulations 30 and 31) must also apply for recognition. There are recognition routes for doctors pdf icon PDF, 27 Kb , psychometric assessors pdf icon PDF, 36 Kb , trainers pdf icon PDF, 27 Kb and examination centres pdf icon PDF, 29 Kb . These give guidance on the evidence needed to support a recognition application. Applications should be emailed to RSD Admin or sent to the address above. You can find out who is recognised from our published registers of doctors xls icon XLS, 52 Kb , psychometric assessors xls icon XLS, 57 Kb and training and examination centres xls icon XLS, 48 Kb (as required under Regulation 23(1)). Enforcement As enforcing authority for the TDLCR we will use the principles established in our HSWA enforcement policy statement to ensure compliance with these statutory requirements. Train driver certificate appeals Drivers can appeal against a decision of a train operating company (under Regulation 36 of TDLCR) not to issue a train driver certificate or to update or renew it. The appeal can also be made if the certificate is suspended or withdrawn. The company's internal appeal procedure must have been used before ORR would consider any appeal it received. We have published guidance doc icon DOC, 401 Kb on the ORR appeal process which includes an application form. Applications should be emailed to RSD Admin or sent to the address above under licence applications. Further information 
file_150.txt|Use this form for any questions or comments you have about our website. Please enter your enquiry below You must fill in the field marked with an asterisk* Your Name: Email address: Email addressIf you would like the web team to respond, please provide your email address If you would like the web team to respond, please provide your email address Please enter a valid email address Comments: * Please enter your comments Data Protection Act 1998 and privacy The Regulator is a data controller under the Data Protection Act 1998. We will hold and process your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in accordance with this Act. We may use your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in connection with any of our statutory functions, including but not limited to, the purpose of internal record keeping, to provide any of our services for which you have registered and to contact you. Where personal data of third parties is provided by you, we assume that you have obtained the required authority to supply this information to us unless you tell us otherwise. We will not transfer or otherwise disclose to third parties your personal data or personal data of others you have provided to us except where permitted to do so for the purpose of exercising our regulatory functions or where permitted or required by law to assist other bodies to exercise their statutory functions, or where you have agreed to the disclosure. Further information on how your information is used, kept secure and your access rights please see our privacy notice . Quick links 
file_89.txt|Independent trustee register DB scheme costs comparison tool Trustees can use our tool to view highlights from our defined benefit (DB) scheme running costs research report 2014 and compare costs information for schemes of a similar size to their own. You can use our checklist to help you calculate and compare your DB scheme costs with other schemes. On this page Compare your DB scheme costs Use our DB scheme costs comparison tool The amount which trustees pay to run their scheme, and the allocation among the various cost types, may vary depending on the design and needs of their scheme and the scheme's complexity, as well as the trustees' and sponsoring employer's own skills. However, understanding what you are paying, and the range of charges for a cost type, is the first step to considering how to ensure you are getting value for money. Use the tool below to view highlights from our DB scheme running costs research report and compare costs information for schemes of a similar size to your own. You may find this helpful to compare what you pay to run your own scheme against the typical cost for schemes in your size band, although cost alone does not indicate whether the scheme is getting value for money. What size is your DB pension scheme? Please select a scheme size Select how many members are in your scheme (including active, deferred and pensioner members): Please note: the figures this tool displays exclude the costs of levies and the production of actuarial valuations. Back to top DB scheme running costs research The DB scheme running costs research report 2014 contains analysis of the annual cost of running a DB scheme, including a breakdown of average charges paid in each scheme size band, and comparisons of average costs between schemes in different size bands. 
file_647.txt|Occupational health presentations and events Information on our occupational health programme's key events and a sample of the presentations. One key way in which we promote our health programme is by arranging and delivering presentations at key events. Third annual trade union safety representatives conference - health and wellbeing On 6 November 2013 ORR hosted its annual union safety representatives' conference in conjunction with RMT, ASLEF, TSSA, and UNITE. The conference theme was health and well-being. Around 120 delegates heard from RSSB on its Workforce Health and Well-Being project, including work to develop resources to help line managers and safety reps better understand and put into practice meaningful health risk assessments. The presentations and workshop sessions prompted lively discussion on a range of topical health issues, including the role of occupational health providers, as well as managing risks from fatigue, stress, asbestos, silica in ballast dust, and suicide. A key theme throughout the day was the importance of safety reps being involved in, and working with company managers, to deliver improvements in health risk management for workers. Occupational health - the financial case ORR's event in November 2012 on 'Occupational Health – The Financial Case', focussed on the financial case and benefits from excellent management of occupational health. The presentations clearly showed the core messages of ORR's health programme pdf icon PDF, 707 Kb , that modestly funded health management, properly targeted, benefits both the individual and the business. A number of common themes emerged from the good practice case study presentations and discussion, including: More visible leadership at senior level is key to the rail industry moving towards excellence in managing health; Better and continuous employee engagement on health (building 'social capital' within the business), building trust with workforce, is critical to success; A more proactive, preventive approach to health risk management is needed, with the focus on the whole organisation and the way work is done, as well as on individuals; Where ill health happens, early intervention (including referrals to occupational health services) is important to  increase early return to work and lessen  business costs; Scope for better use of health and wellbeing data, including sickness absence, data on  those who continue to work and the number of returns to work on restricted duties; Understanding of the costs of ill health to business is needed to target health interventions and to estimate their effectiveness; and Share what works – 'pinch with pride', and collaborate – 'participate with pride' to improve your reduction in costs. Presentations from the event 
file_740.txt|Details of our completed casework regarding competition law. Infringement decisions On 17 November 2006 we informed EWS Ltd of our decision that it had infringed the Chapter II Prohibition of the Competition Act 1998. This decision was based on our findings that EWS concluded contracts whose terms had the effect of excluding competitors from the market for coal haulage by rail and that it had also pursued discriminatory and predatory pricing practices in the same market. English Welsh and Scottish Railway Limited pdf icon PDF, 1,378 Kb Non-infringement decisions These are decisions where, following an investigation under our Competition Act powers, we have decided that the conduct complained about does not infringe the Competition Act 1998. 
file_772.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_546.txt|Exclusions from mainline railway requirements Exclusions from mainline railway requirements Exclusions from the mainline railway requirements This page sets out what rail systems are excluded from the mainline railway requirements of the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS). ROGS give us discretion to exclude from the mainline railway requirements certain transport systems. They fall within one or more of the following categories: metros and other light rail systems; networks that are functionally separate from the rest of the mainline railway and intended only for the operation of local, urban or suburban passenger services, as well as transport undertakings operating solely on these networks; heritage, museum or tourist railways that operate on their own networks; and heritage vehicles that operate on both the mainline railway and complies with national safety rules. We have published an approved list pdf icon PDF, 185 Kb of transport systems that are excluded from the mainline railway. There is also the following 'blanket exclusion' from the mainline railway: Privately owned infrastructure that exists solely for use by the infrastructure owner for its own freight operations. Applicants may seek changes to the approved list by contacting us . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_54.txt|Detailed guidance Key points Work with trustees of defined benefit (DB) schemes to identify what types of member data need to be kept. Advise clients they need adequate internal controls to maintain accurate and up-to-date member data. Work with trustees to carry out a data review exercise regularly and create a data improvement plan. Work with employers to ensure that they understand when they need to pass information to the scheme administrator. Types of member data to keep Trustees are legally required to keep certain types of information. If you’re responsible for managing your clients’ member data or advising trustees on the records they need to keep, ensure you maintain (or, as appropriate, advise the trustees to maintain) records relating to: the date each member joined the scheme details of all contributions received all other payments to and from the scheme including, for example, benefit payments and payments to advisers or the employer details of transfers of members’ benefits and related assets to and from the scheme. Schemes also need to hold certain types of data that is common to all schemes as well as other types of data that is conditional on a number of factors. For more information about common data and conditional data, see the data to be measured in our record-keeping regulatory guidance. Schemes need to keep records for a minimum of six years. However, some records, including both common and conditional data, will need to be kept for a much longer period. Back to top Internal controls If you’re responsible for managing your clients’ scheme data, you need to have adequate internal controls that enable you to keep the data accurate and up-to-date. Ensure that your processes meet the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998. Back to top Maintaining data You should work with trustees to carry out a data review exercise at appropriate intervals, eg annually. You or the trustees should also carry out a review when significant events occur, such as merging or winding up the scheme. You should make sure there’s a data improvement plan to address poor quality data. Back to top Working with employers If you advise the trustees you should assist them to take reasonable steps to ensure that member records are reconciled with information held by employers. Whether you advise the trustees or the employer, ensure that they understand when the employer needs to pass information to the scheme administrator. This includes key events such as when an employee: joins or leaves the scheme changes their rate of contribution changes their name, address or salary retires from work or dies. If an employer fails to provide the required information, you should liaise with the trustees or employer (depending on who you advise), as needed to resolve the issue. You should also consider whether you need to report the breach to us. See code of practice 1: reporting breaches of the law . 
file_726.txt|HS1 access dispute resolution rules and appeals HS1 access dispute resolution rules and appeals This page contains information on how disputes and appeals are dealt with on the High Speed 1 (HS1) network. It also contains information on previous and current appeals related to the HS1 network. High Speed 1 access dispute resolution rules Part I of the HS1 Network Code includes a requirement for HS1 Limited to review its access dispute resolution procedure. HS1 has published access dispute resolution rules , designed to provide a clear and efficient structure for dealing with disputes which arise under access contracts. High Speed 1 appeals 
file_175.txt|Subscribe to our RSS feeds and receive alerts from your favourite sections of the website. The feeds are updated whenever new information is added to the site. What is RSS? RSS stands for Really Simple Syndication and provides a fast and effective way of keeping up to date with your favourite sites through website feeds. How do I start using RSS? To view and collect RSS feeds you will need a news reader, or up-to-date web browser. RSS news readers are available online and many are free of charge. Once you have installed a news reader, either drag the orange RSS button into your news reader or click on the orange RSS button and cut and paste the website address into your reader. MHRA RSS feeds are subject to the general terms and conditions of this site. Available feeds 
file_866.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_132.txt|588,000 2.6 million* (Sources: internal regulator data 31 December 2012, ASHE* 2011. Please note: the annual survey of hours and earnings reports 1.6 million active members of DC trust-based schemes and 240,000 active members in schemes where the type was unknown.) Annual survey of hours and earnings, Office for National Statistics: rounded estimate of number of jobs where employee has taken up a workplace group personal or group stakeholder pension. This excludes individual personal pensions. Excluded from this release are DC workplace personal pensions (referred to as contract-based schemes). DC contract-based schemes, made up of group personal pensions (GPPs) and group stakeholder pensions (GSHPs), are subject to a different regulatory framework from DC trust-based schemes. The regulator works jointly with the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in the regulation of workplace personal pensions (GPPs and GSHPs). Individual personal pensions sit outside of the remit of the regulator. Therefore, all types of DC contract-based provision, both group and individual, are outside of the scope of this statistics release. Data collection Pension schemes in the UK with two or more memberships are required to register with the regulator. At the point of registration, an occupational scheme provides their scheme name and contact details, their scheme status, membership information, and details about their employer(s), trustees and advisers. In addition, the regulator operates a scheme return process. This is a statutory requirement, in the Pensions Act 2004. It is the principal means for the regulator to collect up-to-date information in regard to occupational pension schemes. The regulator operates a phased approach to the DC scheme return, with schemes of 12 or more members completing annually and schemes with two to 11 members completing once every three years. The regulator operates a web-based reporting tool. This offers several advantages, one of which is that schemes can log in to alter their details at any time (the scheme maintenance process). Scheme return notices are still sent to schemes annually or triennially as a reminder to update their details. The scheme return requests further information for occupational trust-based DC schemes with 12 or more memberships, such as total annual contributions over the last year, and market value of scheme assets. For more information regarding the regulator’s scheme return, view our trustee scheme return guidance. Footnotes for this section [1] The effective date in this context refers to the date at which the data was extracted from the register. We also use the phrase effective date in section 5 to refer to when data was uploaded to the register by scheme return respondents. [2] The regulator’s remit extends to all private sector pensions where an employer facilitates contribution payments, and therefore our figures exclude private personal pensions where an individual has purchased a product directly from a provider. Back to top Changes from last year We have sought to make improvements to this year's data release, by including time series data and including the results of questions which were added to the most recent scheme return. Four years of snapshot data As this is now the fourth version of the DC trust statistics release, and as previous versions have not been released with a common effective date, we have included a time series based on a series of snapshots of the pensions register, as at 31 December for each relevant year. This is to give the user one source for all years, and also to improve comparability between years. Market value of scheme assets The regulator has collected information with respect to the assets held by DC schemes with 12 or more members for the last four years. However, we have not previously published this figure as we felt that this could be misinterpreted as the total amount of money held in DC schemes (when in fact our results exclude micro DC schemes, hybrid schemes with DC members, and contract based DC schemes). The Office for National Statistics (ONS) has released a figure estimating the total amount of assets in work place DC schemes in the UK as £385.9 billion. The regulator is therefore now able to present the information it holds on assets in DC schemes in this context. Employer data In last year's release information was included in respect of employers attached to schemes registered with the regulator. This year we have not included this information as we will soon be releasing a fuller picture of employer sponsors of pension schemes as part of the regulator's broader objective to maximise compliance with PA08. Schemes year on year In last year's release a table was shown which presented the regulator's estimate for the number of schemes with 12 or more DC members year on year going back to 1988. Two changes have been made to this table. Firstly, this is now based on all DC schemes with two or more members as this can be tracked more accurately. Secondly, the table now only goes back to 1997, the year that the Occupational Pensions Regulatory Authority (OPRA) first took on responsibility for the register. However, in the calculations tab we still show the number of registrations each year going back to 1988 in order to show the significant peak in 1988 (believed to have been caused by Income and Corporations Tax (ICTA) 1988 which allowed DC schemes to contract out of the state second pension). Decumulation options Two new questions were added to the DC return last year, aimed at enabling the regulator to identify what kinds of features were present in schemes with respect to decumulation options. The two added questions were: Does your scheme offer lifetime annuities? And how many members are using this option? Does your scheme self-annuitise? And how many members are using this option? A scheme offering a lifetime annuity is one where at the point of retirement the scheme purchases an annuity in the name of the trustees, and then facilitates payment of that annuity to the member. A scheme offering self-annuitisation will calculate an annuity payment for the member and make the payment to the member directly from scheme funds. The results of these two questions are included in section 1. Pensioner members As a result of asking new questions in respect of decumulation options the regulator has become aware that its figures for pensioner members do not necessarily represent the number of members who have retired but remained in the scheme. Further, the regulator cannot be confident that the number of pensioner members represents the total number of retirees from that scheme (including those who transferred out). The regulator will seek to address this as part of its next scheme return but for this iteration pensioner memberships are excluded. Back to top Calculations In most cases the data shown here is a direct cut of data held by the regulator. However, in some cases simple calculations are performed to provide what is considered to be more useful information. In that case, the direct data cuts from which the calculations are made are also included in a separate tab labeled 'calculations'. Total schemes year on year In order to create the time series of total schemes year on year we start with the total number of relevant schemes on the register as at 31 December 2012. We then use a table showing the total number of registrations each year, and the total number of schemes winding up each year. By removing the schemes established during 2012 and adding the schemes which wound up in that year, we create an estimate for the number of schemes as at 31 December 2011. We continue this process back to 1997 (the year when OPRA, the predecessor of The Pensions Regulator, took responsibility for maintaining the pensions register). Market value of scheme assets Whilst the significant majority of relevant schemes have provided us with their market value of scheme assets it is not completed by every scheme. Therefore, in order to estimate the total amount of assets within these schemes average assets per member is calculated for each scheme size banding (where size is based on number of members) for those schemes who have supplied the information. We then apply that average to the total number of members in that segment to extrapolate an estimate for the total amount of assets in DC trust schemes with 12 or more members. Annual contributions The issue for market value of scheme assets is also present for annual contributions. The same method is used to extrapolate an estimate for the total amount of contributions to trust-based DC schemes with 12 or more members. The difference with respect to contributions is that the average is calculated and the estimate extrapolated using active members, rather than all members as only active members are contributing. Please note the active membership figure could include members who were only active for part of the year. Governance structure The governance structure theme is designed to show both the number of schemes with multiple non-associated employers or master trusts, which are thought to be a potential growth area following automatic enrolment, and also to separate out those schemes which have been created by employers (unbundled) from those which have been purchased 'off the shelf' from a pension provider (bundled), and therefore have a single company providing all services. There is not a question on the scheme return which provides this split, and therefore an estimate is made by analysing data provided on insurer / administrator. Where the same company provides both administration and insurance services this is classed as a bundled scheme. 
file_666.txt|Performance regime workshop Performance regime workshop We held a workshop on 25 July 2011 to start off our review of the Schedule 8 performance regime as part of the periodic review 2013 (PR13). The Schedule 8 performance regime provides: a basis for compensation to train operators for the impact of lateness and cancellations on their revenues; and incentives for Network Rail and train operators to continuously improve performance where it makes economic sense to do so, achieved by Network Rail and train operators making bonus payments/ paying financial compensation where performance is better or worse than a benchmark. Performance regime workshop- Office of Rail Regulation Further information 
file_856.txt|PR13 legal notices Periodic review 2013 (PR13) legal notices This webpage contains all the legal notices that we have issued relating to the periodic review 2013 (PR13). Legal notices Notice for Network Rail's civils asset management plan 2016/17-2018/19 This notice is to initiate the civils adjustment mechanism, as set out in our PR13 determination. The notice is issued pursuant to condition 1.8 of the licence. Notice for Network Rail's civils asset management plan 2016/17-2018/19 pdf icon PDF, 157 Kb We were unable to conclude on control period 5 (CP5) civils expenditure in our 2013 periodic review because of the level of uncertainty in Network Rail's strategic business plan (SBP) submission. In our determination we set out how we would resolve this through the Civils Adjustment Mechanism. This process requires Network Rail to submit its civils asset management plan 2016/17-2018/19, so we can form a judgement on the volumes and unit costs of the work that will be funded. Implementation of the 2013 periodic review: issue of review implementation notices On 18 March 2014, we concluded the statutory implementation process for PR13 by serving and publishing review implementation notices pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule 4A to the Railways Act 1993. These confirmed that the changes we proposed to make to access agreements and Network Rail's network licence (as set out in the review notices that we issued on 20 December 2013) would be implemented on 1 April 2014. The review implementation notices directed the parties to access agreements within the scope of PR13 to amend their agreements so that the changes would come into effect on and from 1 April 2014. The seven review implementation notices, and the accompanying covering letter that we issued with them, are available below. We have also included MS Word versions of the template supplemental agreements for the parties to access agreements to use when complying with our directions. 
file_677.txt|Success criteria Periodic review 2013 (PR13) success criteria Here you can view the objectives and criteria which we will use to evaluate the success of the periodic review 2013 (PR13), the multi-billion pound plan for improving Britain's railways between 2014 and 2019. Progress on all metrics will be reported in our annual report . Objective / outcome: Objective / outcome: PR13 protects the interests of customers and taxpayers Success criteria How will it be measured? What will success be, and when will this be measured? What corporate objective / s does it support? Network Rail delivers or exceeds all outputs safely and sustainably Public Performance Measure (PPM) Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor England & Wales 2018 / 2019 - 92.5% Franchised TOCs No TOC to exit CP5 below 90% (bar East Coast and Virgin; must not exit CP5 below 88% or CaSL above 4.4% and 2.9% respectively) Rolling annual JPIP targets First Great Western high speed service must not exit CP5 below 88% Support a better service for customers - this metric will facilitate improved punctuality for passengers on all train services Cancellations and Significant Lateness (CaSL) Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor England & Wales East Coast and Virgin must not exit CP5 with CaSL above 4.4% and 2.9% respectively Rolling annual JPIP targets Support a better service for customers - this metric will facilitate a reduction in passengers' experiencing cancellations and significant lateness Freight Delivery Metric (FDM) Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor National Support a better service for customers - this metric will facilitate improved punctuality for freight customers Enhancement projects milestones and delivery of ring-fenced funds Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor Support a better service for customers - improved infrastructure is an enabler of passenger satisfaction and freight customer satisfaction Secure value for money from the railway - efficient enhancement expenditure Development milestones for early stage projects Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor Enhancement project outputs are detailed in Network Rail's CP5 enhancement delivery plan. In this case delivery plan will set out when GRIP3 needs to be achieved. Support a better service for customers - improved infrastructure is an enabler of passenger satisfaction Secure value for money from the railway - efficient enhancement expenditure Health and safety Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor A plan to maximise the reduction in risk of accidents at level crossings, using a £99m ring-fenced fund Drive for a safer railway - reducing risk at one of the biggest causes of accidents Secure value for money from the railway - efficient ring-fenced fund expenditure Network availability Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor National PDI-P CP5 exit - 0.58 PDI-F CP5 exit - 0.73 Support a better service for customers - this metric will facilitate a reduction in passenger and freight customer disruption Network capability Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor National Base requirement at start of CP5 in terms of track mileage and layout, linespeed, gauge, route availability and electrification type Enhancement programme will increase capability Support a better service for customers - this metric will maximise the capability of the network Station Stewardship Measure (SSM) Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor England and Wales Outputs for category A-F stations are outlined in Table 3.6 of the final determination Scotland Support a better service for customers - this metric will maintain station condition across Britain Asset Management Excellence Model Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor January 2018 Asset Management Strategy and planning - 72% Asset Management Decision-Making - 72% Organisation and People Enablers - 72% Risk and Review - 72% Drive for a safer railway - asset management excellence could lead to fewer asset failures and safer infrastructure Support a better service for customers - asset management excellence could lead to better performance Asset data quality Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor April 2017 Structures - A2 Earthworks - A2 Support a better service for customers - good asset data quality is a prerequisite for excellent asset management, which could improve performance ORBIS milestones Network Rail will report against all output measures in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor LADS roll-out Handheld Aug 2014 Support a better service for customers - ORBIS is a prerequisite for excellent asset management, which could improve performance Network Rail delivers its obligations at the most efficient levels possible, comparable with the best railways in the world by the end of the control period Efficiency on support, operations, maintenance and renewals (SOM&R) Network Rail will report its annual financial performance in its Regulatory Accounts. We will review these in our Annual Efficiency and Finance Assessment Total efficiency - 19% by 31 March 2019 Support efficiency - 25% by 31 March 2019 Operations efficiency - 17% by 31 March 2019 Maintenance efficiency - 16% by 31 March 2019 Renewals efficiency - 20% by 31 March 2019 Annual efficiency assumptions are in table 4.3 of the final determination Secure value for money from the railway - directly measures efficiency System operator capability Network Rail will report against all enablers in its Annual Return and Delivery Plan update. We will review these in our Annual Network Rail Monitor Network Rail's capability as a system operator (i.e. in managing its capacity) improves, as indicated by the system operator enabler / improvement plans Support a better service for customers - good system operation will improve performance Secure value for money from the railway - good system operation will support efficiency Promote an increasingly dynamic and sustainable sector - good system operation will aid optimal long term investment Our assessment of Network Rail's total financial performance We will assess Network Rail's total financial performance as part of our annual efficiency and finance assessment Financial performance consistent with or better than our PR13 determination assumptions. We will report on progress annually Secure value for money from the railway - directly measures financial performance Objective / outcome: PR13 facilitates a clear focus on what matters to passengers, freight customers and taxpayers Success criteria How will it be measured? What will success be, and when will this be measured? What corporate objective / s does it support? PR13 improves value for money, including ring-fenced funds National Passenger Survey (NPS) Passenger Focus report NPS results biannually Sustained improvement in satisfaction with punctuality and reliability Support a better service for customers - the NPS directly measures passenger satisfaction Operator and passenger involvement, e.g. in major enhancements Network Rail are proposing a methodology in their delivery plan This will be determined by Network Rail's proposed methodology, but it must include data to show an increase in passenger and operator involvement in all major projects Support a better service for customers - passengers will have a greater opportunity to directly influence enhancements More and greater disaggregated data (including route level data and schedule 4 and 8 information) in public domain (e.g. ORR Data Portal, Network Rail website) Monitoring of our transparency programme Achieving the list of publication/data agreed by the board. Increased numbers of registered users of ORR data The extent to which we can persuade Network Rail to follow the steer given in our response to their transparency consultation to move more quickly Measures of our effectiveness in educating the public more about how the railway works and how it is financed Support a better service for customers - providing customers with the information they need to make decisions Be a high-performing regulator - moving ORR towards transparency best practice Objective / outcome: PR13 encourages a more disaggregated approach Success criteria How will it be measured? What will success be, and when will this be measured? What corporate objective / s does it support? PR13 increases transparency and access to information, including more route level data Transparent and accessible information for the public on major projects Monitoring of Network Rail's website and publication of the Network Rail Monitor Network Rail will provide a page on its website for every major project. Network Rail will confirm - in their final delivery plan - how they are engaging the public and operators in major projects. We will provide an update on major projects in the Network Rail Monitor Support a better service for customers - providing accessible information on projects that will enhance the customer experience Be a high-performing regulator - moving ORR towards transparency best practice Stakeholder and passenger feedback, including expert panels, National Passenger Survey and passenger and consumer focus groups Passenger Focus report NPS results biannually Type of, and feedback from, stakeholder and passenger engagement Increase in overall passenger satisfaction over CP5 Stakeholders and passengers report a greater engagement experience over the control period Support a better service for customers - the NPS directly measures passenger satisfaction PR13 facilitates greater localism Local authority feedback and long term planning process (LTPP) engagement LTPP minutes and stakeholder surveys Sustained attendance and input from local authorities in LTPP deliverables. Positive feedback from local authorities in Network Rail's stakeholder engagement, including the Local Authority conference Support a better service for customers - local authorities are important customers and this reflects their long term requirements Promote an increasingly dynamic and sustainable sector - the LTPP is the primary tool for guiding long term investment Network Rail's CP6 strategic business plan contains improved route-level data (including unit costs) and shows that decisions are being made at route-level with best practice shared across routes Review of Network Rail's strategic business plan for CP6 We will publish our view on the quality of the business plan and will comment specifically on the quality of the route-level plans Network Rail's route-level plans will be robust and show that decisions are being taken at a route-level, that good practice is shared across routes and that we are able to benchmark routes' costs against one another Secure value for money from the railway - improved cost information will better inform our determination efficiency analysis PR13 supports more disaggregation in the industry (for example through Network Rail devolution) to allow a more comparative approach to regulation and a better understanding of costs, revenues and subsidy across the industry Decision making decentralised to the routes Number and type of decisions made at route level Review of Network Rail's strategic business plan for CP6 We will publish our view on the quality of the business plan and will comment specifically on the quality of the route-level plans Network Rail has devolved more decisions to route level. Network Rail has devolved more types of decisions to route level, i.e. procurement, policy Network Rail's route-level plans will be robust and show that decisions are being taken at a route-level that reflect the specific needs of that route Promote an increasingly dynamic and commercially sustainable sector - devolving decision to route, promoting innovation Support a better service for customers - decisions will be taken at a more local level with the specific needs of that region's customers in mind Customer service maturity model NR will specify a suite of measures in the final DP NR will propose a trajectory for CP5 in the final DP and measure itself against that Support a better service for customers - passenger and freight operators are customers of Network Rail Objective / outcome: PR13 facilitates alignment of incentives Success criteria How will it be measured? What will success be, and when will this be measured? What corporate objective / s does it support? PR13 improves the interfaces between the different players in the industry, for example, by facilitating alliances, efficiency benefit sharing at the route-level and bespoke arrangements where these improve whole industry working, will drive greater value for money for customers and taxpayers Supply  chain engagement Network Rail's Annual Customer Supplier Survey Feedback from RIA Positive feedback from Network Rail's supply chain, including RIA's Infrastructure Clients Interface Group Promote an increasingly dynamic and commercially sustainable sector Financial benefits from and scope of alliances and / or REBS participation Network Rail's route-level total financial performance (in annual efficiency and finance assessment) and alliance payments in the year Route-level financial performance consistent with or better than our PR13 determination assumptions. We will report on progress annually Secure value for money from the railway - directly measures financial performance Project cost outperformance as a result of aligned incentives with TOCs through gain share commercial agreements Through the ECAM (Enhancements Cost Adjustment Mechanism) process Aligned incentives  between Network Rail and operators to reduce project costs Number of gain share agreements Lower costs for enhancements projects Secure value for money from the railway Increase in cooperative working between Network Rail and train operators / suppliers through alliancing or REBS Explanation from Network Rail on the number of material alliance agreements in place and qualitative statement on the  impact these have had on  cooperative working Clear examples of cooperative working between train operators, Network Rail and/or suppliers Secure value for money from the railway - from efficiency improvements Support a better service for customers - operators and Network Rail working together to deliver for passengers Objective / outcome: PR13 facilitates greater contestability Success criteria How will it be measured? What will success be, and when will this be measured? What corporate objective / s does it support? PR13 ensures there is more effective use of market mechanisms in the industry will deliver further efficiencies Framework for assessing open access applications is reviewed ORR has carried out this review Optimal framework identified and used by ORR Secure value for money from the railway, for users and funders; Promote an increasingly dynamic and commercially sustainable sector. Level of third party investment Amount of third party investment via the investment framework An increase in third party investment from CP4 to CP5 Promote an increasingly dynamic and commercially sustainable sector Investment framework feedback Stakeholder engagement, via one to ones, surveys and workshops Feedback suggests there are fewer barriers to investment and the investment framework is more customer-focused Promote an increasingly dynamic and commercially sustainable sector Last updated - 3 September 2014 
file_15.txt|You need to supply either a letter code or your PAYE reference* Letter code or PAYE reference / You need to supply either a letter code or your PAYE reference. Please enter the code at the top of the letter we sent you. This should be 10 numeric digits long. The PAYE reference you supplied does not appear to be valid - please check you have entered it correctly. Organisation name* Please enter a valid company name between 3 and 150 characters. Please enter a valid company name between 3 and 150 characters. Primary contact for automatic enrolment Title First name* Please enter a valid primary contact first name between 2 and 50 characters. Please enter a valid primary contact first name between 2 and 50 characters. Last name* Please enter a valid primary contact last name between 2 and 50 characters. Please enter a valid primary contact last name between 2 and 50 characters. Job title* Please enter a valid primary contact job title between 2 and 50 characters. Please enter a valid primary contact job title between 2 and 50 characters. Email address* Please enter a valid primary contact email address between 6 and 100 characters (please remove all spaces). Please enter a valid primary contact email address between 6 and 100 characters (Please remove all spaces). Confirm email address* Please enter a valid primary contact email address that matches the previous entry. Please enter a valid primary contact email address that matches the previous entry. Business phone number (including area code)* Please enter a valid primary contact business phone number between 6 and 50 characters. Please enter a valid primary contact business phone number between 6 and 50 characters. Mobile phone number Please enter a valid primary contact mobile phone number between 6 and 50 characters. Preferred correspondence address Please enter a valid primary contact UK postcode. Addresses found Please select address from the addresses found list. Address line 1* Please enter a valid primary contact address line 1 between 2 and 150 characters. Please enter a valid primary contact address line 1 between 2 and 150 characters. Address line 2* Please enter a valid primary contact address line 2 between 2 and 150 characters. Please enter a valid primary contact address line 2 between 2 and 150 characters. Address line 3 Please enter a valid primary contact address line 3 between 3 and 100 characters. Address line 4 Please enter a valid primary contact address line 4 between 3 and 100 characters. Address line 5 Please enter a valid primary contact address line 5 between 3 and 100 characters. Postcode* Please enter a valid primary contact UK postcode by regular expression. Please enter a valid primary contact UK postcode. Secondary contact for automatic enrolment Title First name* Please enter a valid secondary contact first name between 2 and 50 characters. Please enter a valid secondary contact first name between 2 and 50 characters. Last name* Please enter a valid secondary contact last name between 2 and 50 characters. Please enter a valid secondary contact last name between 2 and 50 characters. Job title* Please enter a valid secondary contact job title between 2 and 50 characters. Please enter a valid secondary contact job title between 2 and 50 characters. Email address* Please enter a valid secondary contact email address between 6 and 100 characters (please remove all spaces). Please enter a valid secondary contact email address between 6 and 100 characters (Please remove all spaces). Confirm email address* Please enter a valid secondary contact email address that matches the previous entry. Please enter a valid secondary contact email address that matches the previous entry. Business phone number (including area code)* Please enter a valid secondary contact business phone number between 6 and 50 characters. Please enter a valid secondary contact business phone number between 6 and 50 characters. Mobile phone number Please enter a valid secondary contact mobile phone number between 6 and 50 characters. Preferred correspondence address Please enter a valid secondary contact UK postcode. Addresses found Please select address from the addresses found list. Address line 1* Please enter a valid secondary contact address line 1 between 2 and 150 characters. Please enter a valid secondary contact address line 1 between 2 and 150 characters. Address line 2* Please enter a valid secondary contact address line 2 between 2 and 150 characters. Please enter a valid secondary contact address line 2 between 2 and 150 characters. Address line 3 Please enter a valid secondary contact address line 3 between 3 and 100 characters. Address line 4 Please enter a valid secondary contact address line 4 between 3 and 100 characters. Address line 5 Please enter a valid secondary contact address line 5 between 3 and 100 characters. Postcode* Please enter a valid secondary contact UK postcode by regular expression. Please enter a valid secondary contact UK postcode. Nominate now I have read and accept the Privacy Statement* In order to nominate you must agree to the Privacy Statement. Privacy Statement By providing this information you agree to the Regulator collecting your personal information. Where personal data of third parties is provided by you, the Regulator assumes that you have obtained the required authority to supply this information unless you tell the Regulator otherwise. The Regulator is a data controller under the Data Protection Act 1998. We will hold and process your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in accordance with this Act. The Regulator may use your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied to comply with any of its statutory functions. For further information on how your information is used, how we maintain the security of your information, and your rights to access information we hold on you please see our fair processing notice (PDF, 60kb, 6 pages) . Updating your nominated contacts It is important that you inform the regulator if any of your nominated contacts or their contact details (i.e: email or correspondence address) change in the future. To do this please complete the nomination process again. For any other enquiries on automatic enrolment please contact us 
file_460.txt|How we work How we work We plan our annual activities in the context of our long-term vision for the railways, based on our strategic objectives as an independent regulator. These are set out in our business plan and are as follows: drive for a safer railway support a better service to rail customers secure value for money promote a dynamic and commercially sustainable rail sector be a high-performing regulator. 
file_173.txt|Home Stay connected Email alerting service Email alerting service Sign up to receive free emails when new content is added to the sections of your choice on the MHRA website. Register for alerts or update your existing account We welcome any feedback on our service, please send any feedback to: email.support@mhra.gsi.gov.uk . Any questions? Frequently asked questions PDF links within bulletins There are a few specific problems that some users have reported in regard to opening PDFs via the links in our emails. The following suggestions may help: If you receive emails in text format you may find that very long links break within the email. This may be because of settings within your email program which will break the URL into two or more lines. In this scenario, you will need to copy and paste the link into your browser window . Prior to doing so it may be necessary to paste the link into a text editing program and make the link appear on one line. An alternative in this case is to receive emails in HTML format. In Internet Explorer, some PDF documents may open a blank page. If this happens we recommend that you 'Refresh' the page (Ctrl+R on the keyboard) to reload the PDF document. An alternative solution may require the you to make changes to the Acrobat or Reader application. In Adobe Acrobat Reader (or Acrobat itself) you can go to edit/preferences/options and check the "Display PDF In Browser" option. Leaving this box unchecked forces Acrobat to open the document inside the application, not inside the web page. If problems continue it is also possible to follow the suggestions in the Adobe support document located on their website (external link). Feedback about the MHRA email alerting service If you need further assistance or have any suggestions about the MHRA email alerting service, please contact email.support@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Page last modified: 		 		23 January 2014 
file_77.txt|[4] See section 13(3). [5] See sections 90(2)(d). [6] See section 90(2)(d) and also under the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations 2013 (SI 2013/2734) and Schedule 3. [7] See section 90(2)(a). [9] See section 90(2)(c). [10] See section 90(2)(k) and the Occupational Pension Schemes (Internal Controls) Regulations 2005 (SI 2005/3379). [11] These are benefits accrued independently of the contributions payable to and investment returns achieved by the scheme. Most commonly, the benefits are related to members’ earnings when leaving the scheme or retiring and the length of pensionable service completed. [12] See section 221 and regulation 17. [13] For example, no different principles apply where the employer is a charity or a regulated utility. [14] See paragraph 20. Back to top Approaching funding The trustees’ approach to scheme funding cannot be implemented in isolation from their fiduciary and other duties (under both the rules of their scheme and legislation or trust law). The circumstances of both the scheme and employer are also crucial. The trustees’ key objective is to pay promised benefits as they fall due. They may also have additional aims: for example, maintaining the relationship between the scheme and employer, de-risking or (where required, with employer agreement) the preservation of ongoing benefit accrual. Trustees must have appropriate knowledge and understanding of the principles which relate to scheme funding[15] to understand the possible funding approaches for their scheme. Part 3 provides the statutory framework for how the trustees must assess their scheme’s liabilities and determine the pace and period over which these liabilities must be funded. Part 3 sits alongside the scheme’s own funding rules[16]. As there is no single typical scheme, the funding solution under Part 3 will always be scheme-specific. The responsibilities of trustees and the employer Whilst it is the trustees who take the decisions on a scheme’s funding position and who must be comfortable that certain statutory tests are met[17], agreement must normally be reached with the employer on the contents of the funding documents[18]. Collaborative working Trustees and employers should therefore work together in an open and transparent manner to reach funding solutions that strike the right balance between the needs of the scheme and those of the employer. They should engage early and often. This engagement will be valuable even where not mandated. Where negotiation is necessary, it is important to work together as partners to explore whether it is possible to reach agreement. To form their views, the trustees should engage with and obtain relevant information from the employer at an early stage in the valuation process. In turn the employer must provide the trustees with the information they or their professional advisers reasonably require to perform their respective duties[19]. This includes information reasonably required to assess the employer covenant. Employers will appreciate the value of volunteering information about their plans (including those for growth) so that these can be considered when reaching funding decisions. Trustees should not be refused information to which they are otherwise entitled because of concerns over stock exchange requirements or other confidentiality issues[20]. They should, however, be aware of the potentially sensitive nature of the information and any constraints on disclosure by the employer. Potential employer concerns can be overcome by the trustees entering into a confidentiality agreement with the employer and/or using trustee sub-committees. Where constraints on disclosure exist, trustees should co-operate with the employer in taking steps to overcome those restraints where possible. Managing conflicts Managing conflicts of interests and duties properly is vital. Trustees should have a process in place which effectively identifies, documents, monitors and manages conflicts and potential conflicts. Given the importance and sensitivity of funding negotiations, trustees need to understand when actual or potential conflicts arise. Where conflicted, a trustee should consider withdrawing from negotiations. Where there are acute or pervasive conflicts or tensions associated with the trustee’s role (for example where the trustee is also the finance director) it is likely to be inappropriate for the trustee to continue to be involved in those negotiations. Not all conflicts are employer-related. They can also arise for trustees who, for example, are members of the scheme or who hold trade union representative roles. Trustees also need to be aware that their service providers and advisers could also have conflicts. Where a conflict is identified to the trustees they should understand how it is being managed. Agreeing a funding solution It is important that trustees are always able to demonstrate that they have acted in line with their fiduciary duties in an impartial, independent manner when complying with the requirements of Part 3. In the unlikely event that those requirements are not met (even after engagement and collaborative working between both parties) then the trustees should not agree the actuarial valuation as they would be compromising the scheme’s funding position. A limited number of schemes may not be able to put in place an adequate scheme funding solution (ie one which is appropriate in the context of the employer covenant without an unacceptable level of investment risk being run). The trustees of these schemes should be prepared to address the implications of this for paying benefits. Continued future accrual of benefits is unlikely to be appropriate. Other consequences might include consideration of whether the scheme should be wound up or how the scheme’s interests in the employer are protected or realised. Trustees should document their considerations and reasons for decisions. They should be in a position to be able to explain the decisions based on the interplay of the different information and advice strands they have received. When performing their duties under Part 3, trustees should not take into account the potential for the PPF to provide compensation to members of the scheme. Footnotes for this section [16] To the extent there is any conflict between the scheme’s provisions and Part 3, then Part 3 overrides. See sections 306(1) and 306(2)(h). [17] See paragraph 112. [19] See regulation 6(1)(a) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations 1996 (SI 1996/1715). [20] See regulation 6(1) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations 1996 (SI 1996/1715). An integrated approach to risk management It is not necessary to eradicate risks completely. Trustees may wish to embrace a degree of risk in seeking opportunities to capture potentially significant associated rewards for both the scheme and employer. Accepting appropriate risk can significantly help to minimise any adverse impact on the employer’s sustainable growth which in turn helps the trustees to meet their key funding objective to pay promised benefits. Risk should be understood and managed appropriately. Trustees should understand the likely upsides and downsides of proposals and be comfortable with the extent to which the employer can address the likely adverse outcomes over an appropriate period. Trustees should engage with the employer to establish its appetite for risk and tolerance to downside events. Trustees should note that it is not necessary for the employer to be able to cover all conceivable risks or that those it is covering be repaired immediately should they crystallise. Assessing risk If they are not already doing so, trustees should adopt a proportionate[21] integrated approach to risk management when developing an appropriate scheme funding solution. The resources committed to this should be commensurate with the benefits the approach is expected to deliver for the scheme and employer. Schemes face many risks to achieving their funding plans. These broadly fall into those which are: employer covenant-related investment-related and funding-related. As part of a risk management approach, trustees should understand the risks across all of these strands and define acceptable parameters for each within which they seek to manage the scheme. This understanding also helps the trustees to strike the right balance between these risk parameters. In general, employer covenant, funding and investment decisions interact so that a material change to one affects the other two. Trustees should proportionately[22] monitor key indicators so that, where such a change occurs, they can make timely adjustments (if appropriate) designed to preserve the scheme’s funding balance. An integrated approach does not need to be expensive or standalone. Some aspects may already be, and continue to be, recorded within either or both of the statement of funding principles and the statement of investment principles for the scheme. The focus should not be on paperwork or excessive quantification. Instead the approach should be embedded within the trustees’ governance framework. Emphasis should be placed on the actions trustees should take when risks begin to crystallise. Risk management in the funding landscape Effective integrated risk management is an internal control for the scheme and represents an appropriate scheme risk management cycle[23]. Once they have set objectives for scheme funding, trustees should: understand the employer covenant, investment and funding risks to those objectives and the interaction between these risks have a funding and investment strategy to achieve these objectives set an appropriate risk appetite agree appropriate management actions and contingency plans; and establish a framework to assess, monitor and control: scheme risks progress against the trustees’ strategy; and any changes required. Integrated risk management steps Understanding risks Trustees should seek to understand the risks across the employer covenant, investment and funding strands. In particular trustees should understand the extent of the scheme’s reliance on the employer covenant over time on the basis of a range of plausible future scenarios. These scenarios should capture investment risk, the impact of potential or actual maturing of the scheme and the impact of the contribution patterns which are proposed for the scheme (and the risks to those contribution patterns) compared to the employer covenant available under various scenarios. This is because the employer underwrites both the short- and long-term risks to which a scheme is exposed. Tools for understanding risks It is important for trustees to appreciate that all the risk assessment tools only illustrate possible outcomes. They do not predict how a scheme’s assets and liabilities will behave. Their value lies in helping trustees to appreciate the order of magnitude of the scheme risks, the broad trade-offs and the options available for managing these risks. Trustees should assess and weigh the inputs they receive relative to the various other inputs. They are encouraged to use a variety of qualitative and quantitative approaches (for example, scenario testing and stress testing) to assess the impact of adverse events on potential employer covenant, investments and funding plans. The approaches used should be proportionate[24] to scheme and employer circumstances. Approaching risks When approaching the assessment of risk, trustees should remember that pensions are deferred pay. If the funding strategy is unsuccessful and the employer is unable to make up the shortfall this deferred pay will not be delivered. It is useful for trustees to consider how other organisations, which find themselves in a position of being creditors (such as banks), seek to protect themselves against the risk of the non-payment of money owed by counterparties. Applying some of these techniques to the scheme’s circumstances could result in the provision of adequate and risk-controlled collateral or guarantees (the scheme’s actual and contingent assets) and/or the use of controls around employer behaviour (for example, negative pledges and monitoring). Setting strategies Strategies set by the trustees should be specific, measurable, appropriate, realistic and time-bound. Setting acceptable strategies involves establishing the balance between the risks which they consider to be appropriate for the scheme given its and the employer’s circumstances. Trustees should consider a wide range of questions and issues such as: what risks are controllable and what are not the likelihood and consequences of each of these being realised what risks they are prepared to take what risks would they like to mitigate in full or in part proposed risk controls and volatility of results; and vulnerability of the scheme and the employer covenant. This analysis should enable trustees, in discussion with the employer, to identify material risks and set parameters within which they seek to manage the scheme risks. The ability of the trustees to take different levels of risk dependent on their appetite should be informed by their assessment of the employer’s own tolerance to risk. The trustees’ ability to manage and address these risks, is a key flexibility which can be used to minimise any adverse impact on an employer’s sustainable growth. The level of tolerable risk and the flexibilities set by the trustees should be consistent with their key objective to pay promised benefits. Monitoring risk Effective risk management should be an ongoing process. Material changes can occur between actuarial valuations. This is why trustees should have a framework in place to apply proportionately[25] when it comes to on-going monitoring. This should enable them to quickly identify changes in the environment and balance of risks. Employer covenant, investment performance and scheme funding levels can change rapidly and changes can be very different in their nature. Some employer covenant changes may be significant and expected to be permanent, others may not. Similarly, investment values fluctuate constantly with market changes but not all fluctuations will endure or have a lasting adverse impact. Trustees should exercise judgment about the materiality and permanence of changes. Contingency planning Trustee risk management plans should identify the potential steps they may take to preserve an appropriately balanced[26] funding strategy and when to take those steps. Trustees should have a view on the range of likely adverse outcomes that could apply and have an adequate and flexible strategy and governance structure to address these outcomes. This planning should be proportionate[27]. It may be as valuable to the employer as it is for the scheme because potential volatility can be damaging for both. In simple form, it can involve the identification of triggers for provision of information and review and discussion by both trustees and employer of how matters might be addressed. Where trustees agree with the employer to accept more risk than can be supported by the available employer covenant, contingency plans will need to be more definitive as they can provide additional support for the scheme. The plans should be aimed at preventing risk from escalating to levels which the trustees would not find acceptable. They can also be used in anticipation of an improved position (so that, for example, employer concerns over potential scheme funding surplus can be addressed). Options available include: provision of contingent assets 
file_675.txt|Key publications by stakeholders Key periodic review 2013 (PR13) publications by stakeholders This webpage provides references to publications issued by third party stakeholders which are relevant to the PR13 process. For Network Rail's PR13 consultations and publications relating to access charges, please see Network Rail's webpages on this. Publications Publication of Network Rail's draft delivery plan for control period 5 (1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019) 18/12/2013 
file_949.txt|Media enquiries Media enquiries should be directed to ONR's Communications team via onr@onr.gsi.gov.uk . An out of hours Press Office service operates at evenings and weekends - 0151 933 4656. This is for urgent media queries only. Out of hours contact ONR may need to respond to some circumstances out of office hours i.e. Safety or security incident at a nuclear site or Incident or emergency at a nuclear licenced site If your incident fits these descriptions, ring the duty officer on 0151 922 9235 who will initiate the response on behalf of ONR. Locations 
file_247.txt|17 Dec 2014 ~ Press Release: Faulty insulin pens recall People with diabetes who use insulin pens manufactured by Owen Mumford are today being warned by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to check if they have an affected lot. If they have a pen from the list of affected lots, then they should stop using them and receive a replacement at the earliest opportunity. 26 Nov 2014 ~ Regulator helps to create new cancer medicine facility A brand new facility that ensures the continued supply of a critical cancer medicine forms the basis of the first case study released from the Innovation Office today at the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). This new technology features a unique sterile manufacturing process that can help to treat patients with prostate and breast cancer. 25 Nov 2014 ~ Press release: Yellow Card Scheme looks to the future at 50th anniversary forum as MHRA signs up to safety The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) today hosted an expert stakeholder forum to develop a future roadmap for the Yellow Card Scheme, as the adverse reaction reporting system celebrates its 50th anniversary. 
file_454.txt|The following is a list of legislation relevant to us as an organisation. Acts are published on http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ . Acts may have been amended since they were passed. The Freedom of Information Act 2000 As a public body we need to comply with the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act . The Act gives members of the public a right of access to all types of recorded information held by us, with the aim of promoting a spirit of openness and transparency. We would normally have to deal with a request for information within 20 working days of receiving it. Information that we routinely publish is listed in the ORR publication scheme. To make an FOI request, please contact us . Equalities Act Section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 requires us to have due regard to: eliminate discrimination, harassment, victimisation and any other conduct that is prohibited by or under this Act; advance equality of opportunity between persons who share a relevant protected characteristic and persons who do not share it (relevant protected characteristics are – age; disability; gender reassignment; pregnancy and maternity; race; religion or belief; sex; sexual orientation); foster good relations between persons who share a relevant protected characteristic and persons who do not share. 
file_707.txt|Financial ring-fence Condition 4 (financial ring-fence) of Network Rail's network licence includes provisions that: protect Network Rail's funders and customers from the company being exposed to risks that are not part of its role as the GB rail infrastructure operator. In other words, Network Rail is restricted from taking part in activities that are not part of its core business; and require Network Rail to prepare and submit Regulatory accounts. Network Rail can seek our consent to get involved in some restricted activities. We consider each submission for consent on the basis of the information provided to us and having regard to our duties under the Railways Act. Consents issued under consent condition 4 can be viewed on our page - Consents for condition 4 of Network Rail's network licence. Further information 
file_314.txt|Browse reports / data Passenger and freight rail performance This section includes reports on the punctuality of passenger and freight services and the reliability of passenger services. Other data included are the number of temporary speed restrictions and disruption caused to passenger and freight services by possessions as well as information on crowding. The Network Rail Monitor assesses how Network Rail is performing against their regulated targets. These include data on punctuality, reliability, causes of delay, asset failures and disruption to the network from planned engineering work. Passenger and freight rail performance Reports 
file_219.txt|1 x 10ml 31 Mar 2014 Hospira UK Limited is recalling the above batches due to a number of confirmed out of specification test results obtained during stability studies. The out of specification results relate to both adverse impurity profile and low potency. Remaining stock of the affected batches should be quarantined. Hospira will contact customers who may have received the impacted batches to arrange collection via their primary wholesaler, Movianto. For enquiries relating to stock return, please contact the Hospira UK Customer service team, tel: 0800 0287304; email: custserv@hospira.com . For medical information enquiries, please contact the Hospira medical information team, tel: 01926 834400; fax: 01926 834446; email: medinfouk@hospira.com . Recipients of this Drug Alert should bring it to the attention of relevant contacts by copy of this letter. Yours faithfully 
file_168.txt|Step 1 of 2: Reporter Details Reporter details Reporter details You can register on the Yellow Card reporting site when you submit a report, or you can register in advance.    Alternatively, to report a counterfeit medicine or device, call our dedicated 24-hour hotline on 020 2080 6701 or email us: counterfeit@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Are you a member of the public, a healthcare professional, or other (non-healthcare/industry)? Qualification 
file_169.txt|Forgotten Password Forgotten Password Please enter your email address below if you wish to change your password. We will then send 				you a link which you can use to change your password. Request a password change Fields that you must complete are marked with this symbol: Email Address 
file_774.txt|Consolidated agreements Consolidated agreements A consolidated (or conformed) agreement is a document incorporating all approved amendments to the existing approved agreement. We do not approve these consolidated agreements, they are provided by Network Rail for reference purposes only to provide an overview of the current terms of the contract. Redactions You may find that certain information is excluded from these consolidated versions. This is because, under section 71(2) of the Railways Act 1993, we may withold from publication information which relates to the affairs of a private individual or a corporate or unincorporate body if we are satisfied that publication would or might seriously and prejudicially affect the interests of that person or body. TOC / FOC Consolidated agreement Abellio Greater Anglia Limited Abellio Greater Anglia Limited Redacted TAC as at 1 March 2013 including the 39th supplemental agreement pdf icon PDF, 2,980 Kb Arriva Trains Wales Redacted conformed copy as at 4 April 2014 and including the 61st supplemental agreement pdf icon PDF, 1,086 Kb c2c Rail Limited Redacted version as at 19 March 2014 and including the 47th supplemental agreement pdf icon PDF, 1,256 Kb Chiltern Railway Company Limited Redacted conformed copy as at December 2014 up to the 109th supplemental agreement pdf icon PDF, 1,399 Kb Colas Rail Limited 
file_635.txt|Mark I rolling stock Use of Mark 1 rolling stock on the railway. Mark 1 rolling stock means a series of vehicle types, including both electric and diesel multiple units and locomotive-hauled vehicles, built mainly in the 1960s and 1970s, which share certain construction characteristics. The operation of unmodified Mark 1 rolling stock was prohibited under the Railway Safety Regulations 1999 because of poor crashworthiness and other safety issues and the fleet was gradually withdrawn from use on the network by the end of November 2005. Someone wanting to operate this rolling stock may apply for an exemption from the 1999 regulations which may be granted subject to certain modifications being made to reduce safety risks. Issues with Mark 1 rolling stock Mark 1 rolling stock is often referred to as 'slam-door trains'. These vehicles have a poor safety record and are likely to suffer far more damage in a collision with potentially harmful consequences for passengers because although they have a robust chassis, the body shell is relatively weak. Also over the years there were many fatalities and injuries connected with the slam doors, mainly due to the lack of central door locking and partly due to the pull down windows in doors. When Mark1 rolling stock was more widely used before unmodified vehicles were completely withdrawn, safety risks were reduced by the Installation of train protection and warning systems (TPWS) on the railway and the fitting bars across windows. However in general, risks decreased as Mark 1 rolling stock was withdrawn from operation. Current use of Mark 1 rolling stock Heritage/charter train companies, and other operators of Mark I rolling stock, have applied for exemptions to allow them to continue to run stock without central door locking, subject to certain conditions. Most of these exemptions have been granted until 31 March 2023. Although the provisions of the Railway Safety Regulations 1999 relating to Mark I have achieved the desired outcome, they have an ongoing effect while the exemptions made under the regulations are still in force. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_401.txt|New to health and safety? Offshore COSHH Essentials Offshore COSHH Essentials was prepared in partnership by an HSE/Industry/Unions working group and describes good control practice for controlling exposure to chemicals, for a range of common processes and tasks in the offshore industry. The guidance is aimed at managers, safety practitioners, offshore medics and safety representatives in the offshore oil and gas industry, who have responsibility for managing the control of substances hazardous to health. These Offshore COSHH Essential (OCE) and Offshore COSHH Method (OCM) series are part of a suite of guidance on offshore health risks and includes Offshore Food Essentials (OFE) and Offshore Radiation Essentials (ORE). The Offshore Essentials sheets are not your risk assessments, but they will help you to assess the risks for named tasks and identify good control practice as well as reviewing existing control practice. An individual duty holder is unlikely to need all the sheets and should therefore select and download the appropriate sheets for the process or task that they are interested in and follow the advice given. It is important to look at all the advice and not pick and choose bits of advice, as all the points work together to provide adequate control. Implementing all the advice means that you will be following good control practice and will normally comply with exposure limits. You can also compare any controls you already use with the advice from Offshore COSHH Essentials. If the controls you have in place are the same or more stringent than those recommended by the guidance, then you are likely to be taking the right type of action. 
file_277.txt|E-mail: copyright@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Re-use in copyright terms is the handling of information in a way that was not originally intended. The acts restricted by copyright are: copying, adapting, developing, adding value, broadcasting and commercially exploiting. If you are not sure whether you need our permission, or have any questions in relation to filling in the form, please contact us for advice. The application process We try to process all applications and provide you with a decision within twenty working days of receiving your application. For straightforward applications the process may be quicker. If all reasonable efforts have been made but details of the decision cannot be confirmed within twenty days, you will be informed as soon as possible. Granting permission to re-use MHRA information If your request is granted (and a formal licence is not required) you will receive a letter granting permission to reproduce the material in question. If you are granted permission to reproduce MHRA material and a formal licence is also required, you will receive licence terms and conditions (together with the cost for re-use) for you to accept. Details of licensing terms and conditions together with costs, discounts and waivers are given below. Once you have accepted the terms and conditions a formal licence will be drawn up and sent to you for signature, together with a fee request for payment. Exceptions In principle, all information can be licensed for legitimate re-use by an applicant. However, we may refuse to grant certain applications to re-use Crown copyright material that: is restricted by legislation, for example the Data Protection Act and Freedom of Information (FOI) Act is protected by the rights of another organisation and that organisation has not given their permission for re-use is constrained in practice, by limitations of current technology may damage the reputation of the Agency; for example, to re-use information in a way that targets vulnerable groups is intended to be used in a way that could mislead the public has been superseded or is out of date, unless there is an intention to make it clear that that more up-to-date material is available. The MHRA may also refuse to grant certain applications seeking to: produce an exact copy (or a very similar copy) of one of their products or of a product they plan to produce within twelve months of the application; produce a product that, in their opinion, is likely to affect safety; use the material for advertising or promotional reasons. If your application for re-use is refused, full reasons will be given. You will also have the opportunity to appeal against the decision (details of the appeals process can be found below). In all circumstances MHRA will, where possible, offer the applicant an alternative option. Confidentiality All information provided in applications to use/re-use information will be treated in confidence. Your personal data will not be made available to others for any purpose. Licences and terms and conditions If the MHRA grants permission to use/re-use material, we will issue a licence with terms and conditions, which may involve the payment of a fee. Licences, and conditions, are based on the template licences and standard terms and conditions for re-use on the OPSI website (external link) and will be prepared and adapted to suit each individual case (example of an MHRA licence). When we licence the use of our material, we treat all our applicants fairly and we will regularly review all of our licences to ensure fairness and transparency. We will send you full details of our terms and conditions, within the offer of a licence agreement, after we have processed your application. All licensees will also be required to identify the source of the material they are re-using and its copyright status. A sample statement will be provided. Charging for re-use For most of the material produced by the Agency, the MHRA, authorises users of publications and visitors to the website, to make one free copy (excluding Agency logos) for the purposes of private research study or reference. For material of a more commercial nature, the MHRA will make a charge for its re-use, recovering the cost of producing and providing the document/information, and including a reasonable return on investment. As a Trading Fund, the MHRA must generate income from the sale and licensing of our services, products and information. There are two kinds of fees: royalties and fixed fees: Royalties A royalty is a fee that is linked to the amount of income generated from the sale of a product. It is generally payable annually. Our royalty rate is 10% and the formula used for determining royalties due is: Royalty rate x level of income generated by the product (after taking into account the booksellers’ or agents discount) x percentage of Crown copyright material in the publication, (as judged by the MHRA). If there is no selling price, or the selling price is below the fair market value for similar products, we will work out royalties based on the same market value. The MHRA retains the right to acquire without charge, a copy of any value-added product openly marketed and sold, in order to supplement its archive. Fixed fees Fixed fees would normally be used in the following circumstances: where the material is re-used in a way that does not involve the offer for sale of a product or service to a customer where the material represents a small proportion of a large database product. Fixed fees are payable once or at agreed intervals. The level of fees charged by the MHRA are as follows: £500 minimum charge for any information up to 20 pages £1000 between 21 and 50 pages £2000 between 51 and 100 pages £500 for every 100 pages thereafter. If there is a requirement for regular updates to any information being re-used, then there will be additional charges for this service. Internet/intranet use The charging arrangements for the re-use of Crown copyright material originated by the MHRA, on an internet/intranet site, will be subject to separate negotiation, and will depend on intended use. Bespoke services Bespoke services will be priced on a project-by-project basis, dependent on the nature of the services and the requirements of the customer. However within any specific UK market sector, the price for identical products and services will be the same. Discounts and waivers Exceptional concessions may be granted to organisations or individuals for academic or educational purposes. Where a concession is granted to an organisation or individual, the same concession will be granted to like organisations or individuals in like circumstances. If we benefit from the re-use of our information, we may consider offsetting any fees against the value of the benefit. For example: if you provide us with new information that we can use to improve our products; if your product or service improves safety. For further details please email copyright@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Copyright infringement Under UK law copyright infringement is a criminal offence. Whilst we actively encourage the licensed use of our material, we will protect it against unlicensed use. We constantly monitor the use of our material by other people and organisations. We will pursue any cases where material has been used/re-used without our permission. It is our aim to sort out any problems amicably but we have the right to take any necessary legal action to protect our interests and the interests of our licensed customers. Complaints If you are dissatisfied with the response from the Agency to any aspect of our licensing activity you may seek an internal review of that decision. A senior Agency official, who has not previously been involved with your request, will undertake that review. All complaints should be made in writing and sent to: Mrs Kirsten Padgham Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency 5.M 151 Buckingham Palace Road Victoria 
file_685.txt|Best practice studies International best practice studies A programme of international fact-finding visits was conducted during the summer and autumn of 2007 to a number of railway administrations in Europe, North America and Australia. This study tour was part of our work on the 2008 Periodic Review, which will determine the regulated outputs and access charges for the five year control period (CP4) between 1 April 2009 and 31 March 2014. To be able to determine these charges we need to understand the costs that Network Rail expects to incur to run its business, and we need to do this with the widest possible knowledge of how other railways are operated and managed. The specific aim of this visit programme was therefore to seek information to help us in our assessment of Network Rail's expenditure plans and enable us to reach a robust determination of the expenditure required to maintain and renew its infrastructure assets in an efficient and economic manner that is in accordance with best asset management practices. We believe that there are many opportunities for Network Rail to investigate, compare itself, challenge its existing practices and consider adopting ideas and initiatives from other railways and the wider supply industry. Network Rail faces many of the same challenges as the comparator railways we visited, and therefore if it is to become a truly world class business, it must be active in seeking to identify and implement best practice. Constructive interaction with other railway organisations is an essential element in that process, and it needs to last well beyond the confines of the 2008 periodic review. Indeed, it should be a continuous process. We will be continuing to discuss the lessons set out in this report with Network Rail, and to seek further evidence of an open and learning approach within the pursuit of appropriate best practice for Britain's railways. The summary report documents the main challenges that we identified for Network Rail and provides the introduction to the supporting suite of individual visit reports accessible below, each of which contains much more detailed information and commentary. The report on our visit to German Railways will be added shortly. Further information 
file_821.txt|Train driver licensing Transport and Works Act Orders If you need to consult us on a draft Transport and Works Act Order please contact us via our customer correspondence team in the first instance. Licensing Licensing is one of our core statutory functions. If you want to operate a train, station, network or light maintenance depot you will need to be covered by a licence or licence exemption. Through licensing we promote effective and efficient working relationships between industry parties and safeguard the public interest. If you are a railway operator, there is a range of regulatory requirements. Read more about our role in licensing Track access arrangements If you want to run trains on the national network, you will need to agree an access contract with Network Rail which is then subject to approval by us. Read more about track access arrangements Station and depot access arrangements There is a fixed process for applying for access to stations and depots. We approve all access agreements between facility owners and railway operators. Read more station and depot access arrangements High Speed 1 access arrangements We approve all track access contracts between High Speed 1 Ltd and other operators wishing to use the High Speed 1 railway. 
file_889.txt|Alliance Rail Holdings (ECML application) Application withdrawn For older decisions, please see the National Archives . Last updated - 23 April 2014 
file_502.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_531.txt|Customer correspondence team Customer correspondence team Our Customer correspondence team (CCT) deals with complaints, enquiries and Freedom of Information (FOI) requests from members of the public. We ensure that anyone who contacts us receives a prompt and full response to their comment or query. We aim to: provide you with a full response within twenty working days refer your correspondence to the most appropriate organisation or regulatory body if necessary Before contacting CCT, you may wish to read our Information for passengers section. Contact details 
file_492.txt|Freight operator companies Freight operator companies Companies use the rail network in order to transport goods to their destination. With the road network increasingly under pressure, and the rising cost of road transport, industries and businesses are turning to rail as a cost effective (and environmentally friendly) means of transport. 
file_988.txt|Consultation on the Conduct, Marking and Grading of Spoken Language Skills in GCSE English Language Consultations > Consultation on the Conduct, Marking and Grading of Spoken Language Skills in GCSE English Language Home Back The scope of this consultation From September 2015, students in England will start studying for new GCSE English language qualifications, graded 9 to 1. We have already announced that the outcomes of the assessment of students' speaking skills will not contribute to the 9 to 1 grade for the subject. This grade will be based on students' performance in their written exams only. Students' performance in their spoken language assessment will instead be reported in a separate grade. We are now seeking views on how the spoken language assessment should be conducted, marked and graded. Read the consultation The consultation is available to view online using the navigation on the left of this page or below this text. Download the consultation in Word format that you can fill in and send back to us. How to respond to this consultation If you are interested in GCSE English language we hope you will respond to this consultation. The closing date for responses is 26th September 2014. Please respond to this consultation in one of three ways: Email your response to consultations@ofqual.gov.uk – please include 'GCSE English Spoken Language Consultation' in the subject line of the email and make clear who you are and in what capacity you are responding. Post your response to: GCSE English Spoken Language Consultation, Ofqual, 
file_513.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_307.txt|Your browser does not support iframes. Export and Save 
file_917.txt|2012 2012 press releases All press notices from January to December 2012 are shown below. Other press notices are available under their relevant year. Date: 
file_719.txt|Enforcement relating to Integrated Train Planning System Enforcement relating to Integrated Train Planning System On 7 September 2010, we determined that Network Rail was in breach of its licence following problems introducing a new train timetable planning system. The ruling followed an extensive investigation by us into problems arising from the introduction of the integrated train planning system (ITPS) for the May 2010 timetable, and the effect these problems had on operators and customers. The new system was designed to make it easier and more efficient for Network Rail to provide timetable information to train and freight operators. However, system faults left some operators temporarily unable to publish information or take bookings and reservations. Further information Notice of proposed penalty for the breach of Network Rail's network licence in relation to the introduction of the Integrated Train Planning System (ITPS) - Letter from Network Rail to ORR pdf icon PDF, 282 Kb 18 November 2010 ORR investigation of Network Rail's introduction of a new train planning system - Letter from ORR to Funkwerk Information Technologies York Ltd pdf icon PDF, 53 Kb 17 Nov 2010 ORR investigation of Network Rail's introduction of a train planning system - Letter from Funkwerk Information Technologies York Ltd pdf icon PDF, 184 Kb 4 Nov 2010 
file_34.txt|Closing a scheme Funding your defined benefit scheme You need to ensure your defined benefit (DB) pension scheme is appropriately funded and that contributions are paid on time. On this page Key points DB scheme funding is something in respect of which you need to engage with your scheme's trustees. Statutory funding objective If you run a DB pension scheme, you need to be aware that most schemes providing any defined benefits need to meet a statutory funding objective, which assesses the required levels of funding for a scheme. As an employer, you’ll need to work closely with the trustees to ensure that your scheme meets these funding requirements. In particular, you’ll most likely be required to agree with the trustees: a statement of funding principles a schedule of contributions consistent with these principles a recovery plan setting out the steps that will be taken to address the shortfall where the statutory funding objective is not met. Your role as an employer is summarised in the code of practice: funding defined benefits . If you have any questions about the code see our scheme funding FAQs . We appreciate that there are a number of factors (including events in the wider economy) which can have an impact on your ability to fund your pension scheme. We’ve published the following case studies and statements to help you: Three scheme scenarios which illustrate how we see the approaches set out in our annual funding statement working in practice. Annual funding statements Our annual funding statement provides guidance to trustees undertaking valuations. It's relevant to trustees and employers of all DB schemes but is primarily aimed at those who are currently undertaking valuations. An annual funding statement sets out our view in relation to the risks facing schemes with effective valuation dates for that particular year. You can find current and previous annual funding statements, along with supporting analysis, in our statements section . Back to top Corporate sales and employer departures Some corporate transactions could affect your ability to meet your obligations to the pension scheme either on an ongoing basis or in the event of insolvency and, as a result, be detrimental to the scheme and its members. For example, the following transactions could have such an effect: selling or restructuring your business making a return of capital exiting a multi-employer pension scheme. You will need to consider the effects on the pension schemes involved and the legal implications of your actions, including whether the transactions could, potentially, be seen as falling within the remit of the regulator’s anti-avoidance powers. The effect of some group restructures can be the termination of the participation of certain employers in a pension scheme. Generally, when an employer ceases to participate in a DB multi-employer pension scheme, a debt will become payable to the scheme, equal to the departing employer’s share of the scheme’s buyout deficit, unless the employer enters into an alternative arrangement that reduces its liability. This debt is enforceable by the trustees against the employer. For more information on corporate transactions and employer departures from multi-employer schemes please see the following guidance: 
file_831.txt|Passengers with disabilities Passengers with disabilities All licensed train and station operators are required to establish and comply with a Disabled People's Protection Policy (DPPP) which sets out how they will protect the interests of disabled users of their trains and stations. Making Rail Accessible: ORR's role in enforcing disabled people's protection policies (DPPPs) We are responsible for making sure that train and station operators have policies and practices in place that protect the interests of older and disabled passengers. We want to use this role to help empower passengers to make confident journeys. Each train operator produces a booklet called "Making Rail Accessible: Helping older and disabled people". These booklets are available from stations and the websites of individual operators and they explain what additional assistance disabled people can expect to receive to help them when travelling by train. For further information, and to book assistance, please contact your train operator, or see the website disability-onboard.co.uk , which is operated by the Association of Train Operating companies. The assistance offered by each operator may vary slightly. However all operators must as a minimum provide the assistance set out below. If you would like further information on our role in monitoring and enforcing the DPPPs, please see our policy page . Passenger Assist Passenger Assist is a service provided by train companies to disabled passengers and others who require assistance with any part of their train journey. Staff can help you plan your journey, book tickets and make reservations; they can also assist you at stations and on board trains, with anything from changing platforms to finding your seat. Passenger Assistance is free and available to anyone who needs assistance due to a disability, temporary impairment, or older age. No railcard is required. For more information ask at your local station or visit the website of your local train operator. Ramps Operators must provide ramps that are fit for purpose, available at all staffed stations (either at the station or on board the train) to facilitate the boarding or leaving of the train by wheelchair users, whether assistance has been booked in advance or not. Where this assistance is needed at an unstaffed station, you will need to book it in advance through Passenger Assist. The operator must ensure that they make a member of staff with a ramp available to deliver the assistance. Alternative accessible transport Operators must provide, without extra charge, an appropriate alternative accessible service to take disabled passengers to the nearest or most convenient accessible station from where they can continue their journey. This duty applies where: the station is inaccessible; where, for whatever reason, substitute transport is provided to replace rail services (eg because of planned engineering works) that is inaccessible to disabled passengers; where there is disruption to services at short notice that, for whatever reason, makes services inaccessible to disabled passengers. Passenger Information Operators must provide up-to-date information about the accessibility of facilities and services at stations and on their trains on the National Rail Enquiries website, including the Station Journey Planner ('Stations Made Easy'), as well as their own website. Tickets and fares Operators must ensure that, where disabled passengers are unable to buy a ticket at a station before their journey, they are able to buy a ticket without penalty on the train or at their destination. Scooter Carriage Operators must state in their DPPP their policy regarding the carriage of scooters for mobility-impaired people on their trains. Operators are expected to make the reasoning behind their policy clear in the DPPP, particularly with regard to any policy excluding the carriage of some or all mobility scooters. Where operators do carry scooters on trains, it is recommended that operators clearly indicate whether passengers are required to transfer to a seat, rather than remain seated on their scooter while on board the train. Aural and visual information Operators should give details in their DPPP of their policies for the provision of aural and visual information at stations. This must include a commitment to providing, wherever possible, clear and consistent aural and visual information of train departures and other relevant messages, particularly in the event of delays or disruption. Information points and displays Disabled passengers should be able to get all the information they need at a station from one source. Sections A2 and B1 of Accessible train and station design for disabled people provide standards and guidance for information provision. Luggage Luggage can be difficult to manage for many disabled people, and operators must ensure that staff will be available to help where this assistance has been arranged in advance (for example through Passenger Assist). For further information, and to book assistance, please contact your train operator, or see the website disability-onboard.co.uk , which is operated by the Association of Train Operating companies. 
file_511.txt|Government Procurement Card (GPC) figures This page provides details of transactions in excess of £500 purchased using a corporate card. Corporate card figures by month 
file_944.txt|Privacy policy statement and the use of cookies Privacy and the Data Protection Act policy statement This page explains: how we use information you  give to us how we protect your privacy Privacy and the Data Protection Act ONR's functions are set out in the Energy Act 2013. In carrying out these functions, we necessarily collect information on businesses and individuals. You might also provide us with information by using this website, for example, by giving us feedback or sending a query or request to us. ONR is registered as a data controller under the Data Protection Act 1998 and a description of how we use personal information is included on ONR's entry on the register which is maintained by the Information Commissioners Office . ONR is under a legal duty to protect any personal information we collect and we will only use that information in accordance with the law, including the Data Protection Act and the Energy Act 2013. We use leading technologies and encryption software to safeguard data and apply strict security standards to prevent any unauthorised access to it. In order to carry out our functions and respond to enquiries effectively, we will sometimes need to share information with other government departments, the emergency services, law enforcement agencies, public authorities (such as local authorities and the Environment Agency) and organisations acting on our behalf. However, we will only do this where it is permitted by law. Information charter From time to time we need to handle personal information about you so that we can provide services for you. Our Information charter shows how we look after that information What information do we collect from visitors to our website? We collect two kinds of information from visitors to onr.org.uk: feedback (through emails to our Internet services team) site usage information, from log files and cookies Correspondents should note that all communications to or from the Office for Nuclear Regulation may be automatically logged, monitored and/or recorded for lawful purposes. Confidentiality 
file_651.txt|Periodic review 2013 Periodic review 2013 Through the 2013 periodic review (PR13), we determined what Network Rail must achieve from 2014-19, the money it requires to do this, and the incentives needed to encourage delivery and outperformance. Guide to the periodic review 2013 (PR13) A brief overview of the 2013 periodic review (PR13) of Network Rail's outputs and funding for control period 5 (2014-19). PR13 consultations Details of the closed consultations / opportunities to comment on PR13 related matters. Workshops and stakeholder events Details of the workshops and stakeholder events we have organised. PR13 publications A list of all PR13 publications . Previous access charges reviews Documents published by ORR during previous periodic/access charges reviews are available on the National Archives website . Last updated - 16 April 2014 
file_964.txt|UK ONR ENSREG National Action Plan – December 2014 30 December, 2014 ONR has provided an update to the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group (ENSREG) on the implementation of the UKâ€™s response to events at Fukushima Daichi. The report shows that progress has been made by UK power generation licensees in their response to events that occurred at Fukushima Daichi power plant following the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. The report follows on from the original statement made in December 2012 and covers power rectors only and not all UK nuclear sites. 
file_209.txt|The Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) is undertaking a survey aimed at women who have had or who are contemplating having breast implants. More information about the survey can be found on the CPRD website . Page last modified: 		 		25 November 2014 
file_963.txt|Sellafield REPPIR off-site emergency planning area 7 January, 2015 ONR has determined a revised area around the Sellafield nuclear site where the local authority, in this case Cumbria County Council, is required to have an emergency plan in place to protect the public in the unlikely event of a radiation emergency. ONR is required to make these decisions under the Radiation (Emergency Preparedness and Public Information) Regulations 2001 (REPPIR). The off-site emergency planning area has been revised from a circular 2 km radius area to an approximately circular area varying between 6 and 7 km from the centre of the site. This does not mean that risks at Sellafield have increased, but it takes into consideration ONR’s revised principles for determinations, Sellafield Ltd’s latest assessment of the hazards, and their increased understanding of certain elements contained within the previous assessment. It is important to note that Cumbria County Council and Sellafield Ltd have for many years undertaken some aspects of emergency planning to the 6km distance. The change in area is a result of ONR using its revised principles for determining more effective REPPIR off-site emergency planning areas with the intention that this will lead to additional improvements in public protection. As well as rigorous assessment of hazards, local strategic and practical issues have been considered, such as the location of vulnerable groups. These have been applied such that the determination provides for an area that is both sensible and practical from an emergency planning perspective. The re-determined area includes the communities of Seascale, Gosforth, Thornhill, Beckermet, as well as other smaller towns, villages, and residences. George Sallit, ONR Deputy Chief Inspector said: “Although the risks on the Sellafield site have not increased (the overall radiological risk presented by the site has not changed significantly) better understanding of several elements, particularly potential seismic damage to facilities that leads to the release of radioactive materials, indicates that the extent of the off-site emergency planning area should be increased. I believe that the enhanced REPPIR emergency planning is in the best interests of public safety, demonstrating our commitment to continuous improvement. By following our revised principles, ONR inspectors have not only assessed the operators’ detailed assessments of the radiation hazards but have worked with Cumbria County Council and other agencies to ensure that practical considerations, relevant to the Copeland area, have been taken into account when defining the area requiring an off-site emergency plan.” ONR has written to Cumbria County Council and Sellafield Ltd advising them of the decision. The Council will revise their off-site emergency plan in consultation with the other emergency responders to ensure appropriate arrangements are in place throughout the new area. REPPIR requires the Council to revise their off-site emergency plan within six months of the determination (or longer period as ONR may agree in writing). As part of Cumbria County Council’s REPPIR off-site emergency planning requirements, Sellafield Ltd have arrangements in place to initiate urgent countermeasures to people living close to their site if there is an accident. Sellafield Ltd will work closely with Cumbria County Council and other responders to ensure that these arrangements continue to complement the wider REPPIR emergency plan. Full details of the determination can be found in the Project Assessment Report . 
file_955.txt|Contractor complies with Improvement Notice 9 February, 2015 Jacobs E&C Ltd has complied with the Improvement Notice served by ONR in November 2014, following a seven week extension. ONR required Jacobs E&C Ltd, in their role as Principal Contractor at the Capenhurst nuclear licensed site of Urenco UK Ltd, to improve its management of temporary works associated with the construction phase of the tails management facility.  The temporary works are required to enable the permanent facility to be built. 
file_265.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) is that part of quality assurance which ensures that medicinal products are consistently produced and controlled to the quality standards appropriate to their intended use and as required by the marketing authorisation (MA) or product specification. GMP is concerned with both production and quality control. News and hot topics 
file_840.txt|Our annual report summarises the key activities and events of the reporting year against the framework of objectives set out in our business plan. 12 Jun 2014 Our business plan summarises what we aim to achieve this year and provides detail around our five strategic objectives. 1 Apr 2014 Our health and safety strategy for the railways sets our vision and priorities. 15 Jan 2014 Our corporate strategy sets out our approach to the regulation of the rail industry, working together with infrastructure managers, operators, suppliers and funders. 15 Jan 2014 The Office of Rail Regulation's determinations in the exercise of powers conferred on it by regulation 3 of the Railway Safety Levy Regulations 2006 (“the Regulations”) in respect of the financial year beginning on 1 April 2012. 24 Aug 2012 
file_657.txt|Key stages of the review Key stages of the review Below are the key stages of the 2013 periodic review (PR13): Stage one - from May 2011 until March 2012 This stage focused on consulting on a number of key issues in preparation for subsequent stages. It culminated in our advice to the Secretary of State and Scottish Ministers on how they should develop their high-level output specification (HLOS)  and a statement  on funding available (SoFA).These set out what they wanted the railways to achieve between 2014 and 2019 and the public financial resources that would be, or were likely to be, available for this. Stage two - from March 2012 to October 2013 During this phase we consulted on detailed issues relating to the regulatory framework and how access charges should be set. The Secretary of State and Scottish Ministers also issued their HLOSs and SoFAs to us. It ended with the publication  of our final determination on 31 October 2013. Stage three - from October 2013 to April 2014 During this stage, ORR and Network Rail, with its partners, focus on implementing the final determination. This includes the issue by ORR of the detailed changes to access agreements and Network Rail's network licence required to reflect the final determination. Network Rail and its partners also undertake  detailed planning work ahead of 1 April 2014 to implement the determination. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_128.txt|Employer duty to consult on scheme changes (PDF, 29kb, 2 pages) Published: December 2008 Statement issued during the Department for Work and Pensions' consultation period on amending regulations to give The Pensions Regulator the power to impose financial penalties for breaches of the employer consultation requirements Statement to trustees about current financial pressures (PDF, 171kb, 4 pages) Published: October 2008 Statement setting out The Pensions Regulator’s general position with regard to developments in financial markets and the implications for pension schemes How The Pensions Regulator will regulate the funding of defined benefits (PDF, 199kb, 24 pages) Published: September 2008 Statement informing trustees, employers and their respective advisers on how the regulator will regulate the funding of defined benefits The regulation of schemes in wind-up and in a Pension Protection Fund assessment period (PDF, 138kb, 10 pages) Published: June 2008 A joint statement by The Pensions Regulator, the Pension Protection Fund and the Financial Assistance Scheme (as part of the Department for Work and Pensions) 
file_292.txt|Accessibility - Help using this site Text size To adjust the text size on this site please use the text resizing feature in the banner above (requires javascript) or alter your browser settings. Detailed guidance on how to do this has been published by the BBC , AbilityNet and the Web Accessibility Initiative . We’ve summarized the main points below. Google chrome What to select: Select the wrench, scroll to Zoom and choose a setting; or Keyboard shortcuts: Ctrl++. What to select: View > Text Size; or Keyboard shortcuts: Ctrl++. Firefox What to select: View > Zoom > Zoom in and   You can choose to zoom the whole page or text only; or Keyboard shortcuts: Ctrl++. Always check your browsers help feature (press F1) to find out how to get the best from your browser. Colours Again a lot of good content has already been published by the BBC and the Web Accessibility Initiative . If you need a specific colour scheme, again use your browser features to change the colours of all websites. Google chrome What to select: Select the wrench, scroll to Zoom and choose a setting. Internet explorer What to select: Tools > Internet Options > Accessibility and check the first 3 options, and Tools > Internet Options > Colours and then choose colour preferences; or Keyboard shortcuts:   Alt+T > ALT+O > Alt+E > and check first 3 options, and Alt+T > ALT+O > Alt + C. Firefox What to select: Tools > Options > Content > Colours > Then choose your preferred colour scheme, uncheck “Allow pages to choose their own colours…” and OK; or Keyboard shortcuts: Alt+T > ALT+O > Right Arrow to Content > Alt+C and through options and then OK. PDFs To view PDF files on the HSE website use the free Acrobat reader or one of the alternative PDF readers. You can customise colours displayed in PDFs by choosing Edit > Preferences > Accessibility > Replace Document Colors. Then choose a colour scheme that matches your requirements. For more information about PDF accessibility see the Adobe website accessibility section . Please also see our PDF help guide for general help. Keyboard access This site's layout takes into account users who are visually impaired or have difficulties using a mouse. Skip to content and skip to navigation links are provided at the top of each page to enable keyboard users to jump to the content with only a few keystrokes. Tabbing through the pages takes you first through the header, then through the left navigation, then through the content area and finally through the links in the footer. Videos There are many videos on the HSE website. Most have a transcript or captions. Unfortunately, there are a number that don't. This is something we are fixing. More recent videos are hosted by YouTube and Google provides guidance on captions and screen reader compatibility. Accessibility statement To learn more about what we are doing to make our site accessible please read our accessibility statement . Resources 
file_7.txt|Closing a scheme The essential guide to automatic enrolment The law on workplace pensions has changed. All employers are legally required to automatically enrol certain staff into a pension scheme and make contributions. You will also have to tell your staff about the scheme you put them in and allow other staff to join if they request to do so. Prepare for automatic enrolment Find out how to prepare for automatic enrolment with this step-by-step guide to your new legal duties. Guidance The essential guide to automatic enrolment Our electronic brochure outlines the main steps that you need to take to be ready for automatic enrolment. You can also find alternative non-flash and PDF formats below. Please note: There may be circumstances that are not covered in the guide that could have an impact on the decisions or changes you're required to make. You may need to seek additional guidance or professional advice to ensure that you meet your legal obligations. Alternative formats of the essential guide to automatic enrolment 
file_138.txt|Hugh Mackay Retirement Benefits Scheme - Section 89 report (PDF, 89kb, 3 pages) Published: January 2012 The governance issues arising from the Hugh Mackay Retirement Benefits Scheme including the prohibition by the Determinations Panel of three individuals. Polestar - Section 89 report (PDF, 44kb) Published: October 2011 The regulator's role and view of the trustee's decision to wind up the scheme, including the types of factors the regulator may consider when deciding whether or not to grant clearance or approve a regulated apportionment arrangement. Great Lakes - Section 89 report (PDF, 114kb, 2 pages) Published: July 2011 The regulator's decision to issue a warning notice relating to the potential use of the financial support direction power and the settlement that was reached between the trustees of the Great Lakes UK Limited Pension Plan and the targets companies. Bonas - Section 89 report (PDF, 44kb, 2 pages) Published: June 2011 The regulator's power under section 38 of the Pensions Act 2004, including the details of the Contribution Notice issued against Michel Van de Weile NV following the Determinations Panel's decision and subsequent Upper Tribunal proceedings. GEC 1972 Plan (telent) - Section 89 report (PDF, 40kb) Published: April 2008 The regulator's role in relation to Pension Corporation's purchase of Telent limited, and the decision by the Determinations Panel to appoint independent trustees and to approve a new governing structure for the plan. Share this page using: 
file_104.txt|Independent trustee register Automatic enrolment and the role of trustees The introduction of automatic enrolment means that all UK employers will have to provide their workers with access to a pension scheme. Millions of workers have already been automatically enrolled into pension schemes, and while these new duties apply to employers, trustees have an important role to play. A downloadable version of the information on this web page about automatic enrolment and the role of trustees. On this page Fine tuning Your role As the trustee of a pension scheme, you might find that you are the first point of contact for employers. If this happens, you should be able to provide the right information to employers about automatic enrolment, for example whether your scheme is suitable to be used, and what impact automatic enrolment might have on your scheme. If an employer chooses to use your scheme there may be other tasks that they ask the trustees to undertake on their behalf, such as communicating with members or completing a declaration of compliance (registration) with the regulator to confirm that the employer has complied with the new duties. Back to top The impact on your scheme While an employer may approach your scheme, we think many of them will choose a group personal pension or a master trust for automatic enrolment. Usually run by large specialist pension providers, these schemes are generally designed to be used by large numbers of different employers. However, if an employer does explore the possibility of using your scheme for automatic enrolment, it’s important that you are able to quickly assess whether this is possible and feasible. You also need to consider the impact on the scheme of potential new members and any additional resources needed to accommodate them. This will include the impact on the quality of service that existing members receive. You should also, in conjunction with the employer, consider who will pay for any additional costs associated with an increase in membership. Trustees should consider whether their scheme is in a position to accommodate the potentially rapid and significant increase in administration and governance requirements that may occur if their scheme is used to automatically enrol workers. If it is concluded that your scheme is not in a position to be used for automatic enrolment you can direct the employer to our guide to selecting a scheme below. Back to top Check whether your scheme can be used for automatic enrolment An employer can only elect to use a scheme for automatic enrolment if it meets certain legal criteria. These include that the scheme does not require the worker's consent to join, that it allows workers to join from their first day of employment, and that it is tax registered in the UK. If you run a defined contribution (DC) scheme, then you can use our qualifying scheme tool below to assess whether your scheme can be used. Interactive tool DC qualifying schemes tool The tool will help you assess whether your DC scheme is a qualifying scheme and explains the additional criteria that the scheme will need to meet in order to be used for automatic enrolment. If you run a defined benefit (DB) scheme, then we have guidance that can help you with this assessment below. Guidance 4: Pension schemes (PDF, 341kb, 38 pages) See our detailed guidance to check whether a DB scheme qualifies for automatic enrolment. If your scheme does not qualify, you can suggest that the employer uses our employer's guide to selecting a good quality scheme for automatic enrolment (see above) to help them select a different scheme. Alternatively, the employer may ask you to change the scheme rules so that your existing scheme can be used. If changes are proposed then you will need to consider, and advise the employer, whether existing scheme members need to be consulted about the proposed change. As well as ensuring that the scheme they select qualifies for automatic enrolment use, employers should choose a good quality pension scheme that is well run, offers value for money and protects workers’ retirement savings. We have provided guidance for employers to help them assess whether a DC scheme is of good quality. This includes whether the set up of the scheme is straightforward, the investment options on offer, how well investments are managed, whether costs and charges provide value for money, the qualifications of those responsible for running the scheme and the quality of communications provided to members. Back to top Fine tuning Whether or not your scheme is going to be used to meet the employer duties, it’s important that you make sure that it is performing well and in the interests of its members. In particular, DC scheme trustees should take this opportunity to ensure that their scheme is well run, offers value for money and protects workers’ retirement savings. We have published the DC code of practice and accompanying DC regulatory guidance on the governance and administration of DC schemes. You can use our introduction to the DC code and DC regulatory guidance to review the quality features we expect to be present in your scheme. These features focus on how trustees need to understand their scheme, risk management, investments, governance, administration and member communications. 
file_922.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_35.txt|• There is certain information about your pension scheme which must be shared with the regulator. • Exchange, our online service, can be used to share the required information with the regulator. What must be reported In order to meet your regulatory duties you must share the following information with the regulator: register your pension scheme report a breach of the law report a notifiable event (defined benefit schemes only) pay the levy amend or wind up your scheme. You can share information with us about your pension scheme easily and quickly using our online service Exchange . Back to top Registration of a pension scheme Most occupational and personal pension schemes have to be registered with the regulator. Trustees of occupational pension schemes and managers of personal pension schemes are responsible for the scheme’s registration. Pension scheme details can be registered or updated online using Exchange . This information helps us to maintain a complete and accurate register of pension schemes and to hold up-to-date scheme information. It’s used to calculate the levy payable for each scheme and is also used by the Pensions Tracing Service. Back to top Scheme return Registrable schemes must also provide a regular scheme return to the regulator, containing prescribed information. A return is required when the scheme receives a scheme return notice from the regulator. As an employer, you must ensure that trustees (or managers of the scheme) have the information they need to complete the regular scheme return. A scheme return is how we capture information about pension schemes that we use to help maintain our register of pension schemes. We share this information with the Pension Protection Fund and the Pension Tracing Service . It's the trustees' or manager’s responsibility to keep the regulator informed of any changes to registrable scheme details. Exchange provides an easy way to do this, which enables scheme details to be updated at any time. By keeping the registrable scheme details updated throughout the year the trustees or manager of the scheme will find it easier to complete the scheme return when required to do so. For more information go to scheme return . Back to top Report a breach of the law Employers and other individuals involved in running a pension scheme have a legal duty to report a breach of the law where it is likely to be of material significance to the regulator. Back to top Report a notifiable event (for DB schemes only) If you are an employer of a defined benefit (DB) scheme, you and the trustees have to tell us promptly about certain 'notifiable' events. These are specific events prescribed by the regulations which may have a significant impact on the security of members' benefits. For more information go to notifiable events . Back to top Report late payment of contributions We’ve updated our codes of practice on reporting late payment of contributions to defined contribution (DC) occupational and personal pension schemes and accompanying guidance. The codes and the accompanying guidance aim to improve transparency and ensure that everyone involved in the flow of contributions has a clear understanding of their responsibilities. 
file_551.txt|Renewing Operation and maintenance of parts in the system Professional qualifications and health and safety conditions of staff who contribute to its operation and maintenance Generally the Directives aim to: ensure common Technical Specifications for Interoperability (TSI's) are applied across Europe's railways; establish a common European verification and authorisation process for placing new, upgraded or renewed infrastructure or rolling stock in service; and provide a process for putting certain rail components knows as interoperability constituents onto the rail market. The Railways (Interoperability) Regulations 2011 The Railways (Interoperability) Regulations 2011 transpose the Directive into National Law. RIR 2011 revoked the RIR 2006.There are no transitional provisions. Some of the key changes from the 2006 regulations include: Widening the scope of the authorisation regime, meaning an authorisation is required for the first use of vehicles and infrastructure both on and off the Trans European Network (TEN); Changes to the structure and content of technical files; Enabling conditions and restrictions to apply to authorisations (this means if an authorisation for all of the UK network is technically impractical this can be taken into account); Not to require a mandatory authorisation for vehicles first authorised in another Member State; Enable a voluntary process of vehicle authorisation in the UK when a vehicle is already authorised in another Member State; Enabling a streamlined "type" authorisation process to obtain an authorisation to place an identical vehicle or subsystem into service; A type authorisation for non-vehicles and subsystems; A new requirement for owners of infrastructure to publish data on their infrastructure and meet their requirements of an EU infrastructure register specification; Ensure owners of vehicles supply data for a vehicle register in line with a European specification; An appeal mechanism so an applicant can appeal about a safety authority decision to the Secretary of State. In Northern Ireland, where the safety authority is DRDNI, an appeal can be made to DRDNI; and A dispensation provision to enable the use after 31 December 2019 of older vehicles which have been made accessible but which do not fully comply with accessibility standards. Technical Specifications for Interoperability (TSIs) Technical Specifications for Interoperability (TSIs) define the technical standards required to satisfy the essential requirements set out in the Directive to achieve interoperability. These requirements include safety, reliability and availability, health, environmental protection and technical compatibility along with others specific to certain subsystems. The development process for TSIs are managed and published by the European Rail Agency (ERA). The key stages in the process for development of a TSI are: Drafting and development of the TSI by the ERA Recommendation of the draft TSI by the Railway Interoperability and Safety Committee (RISC) Adoption of the TSI in a decision by the European Commission (EC) Notification of the EC decision to Member States (by formal letter) Publication of the TSI in the Official Journal (OJ) of the European Union The TSI 'becoming applicable' (i.e. coming into force) National Technical Rules (NTRs) National Technical Rules (NTRs) are those standards which the Directive requires each Member State to notify to the commission where it contains an identified 'open point' or where a derogation from a TSI has been notified. The notified NTRs will not supplement the TSIs on performance related issues, nor repeat requirements instructed by the TSIs. The Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) is responsible, on behalf of the rail industry, for proposing to the Department for Transport , those standards that should be notified against each of the TSIs for use on the GB mainline. The purpose of the notified NTRs is to provide additional controls to ensure that the essential requirements, as specified in the Directive, are met. Other NTR's are notified in a similar way for all networks including High Speed 1, the Channel Tunnel and Northern Ireland. How to make an application for authorisation The Project Entity must seek an authorisation before placing the structural subsystem into service. We grant the authorisation for placing into service (APIS). An application for APIS should be made in respect of any structural subsystem if: The authorisation is required under regulation 4(1)- a first authorisation; An authorisation is not required under regulation 4(1) as regulation 3(2) or (5)(a) applies, however the person nevertheless wants an authorisation- a voluntary first authorisation; An authorisation is not required under regulation 4(1) as regulation 4(1)(c) applies, but the person nevertheless wants an authorisation- a voluntary re-authorisation. In accordance to regulation 5(2), the Project Entity must make the application to ORR in writing accompanied by the technical file, in accordance with regulation 17(2)(a) and relevant parts of the revised Annex VI of the Directive, and the verification declaration. The application for authorisation must comply with regulations 4, 15 and 16 of the RIR 2011. There is no mandatory time limit for us to determine an application or authorisation; however, applicants should build 4 months into their project timescales. Enforcement As enforcing authority for the Interoperability regulations we will use the principles established in our HSWA enforcement policy statement pdf icon PDF, 228 Kb to ensure compliance with these statutory requirements. Last updated - 22 September 2014 
file_76.txt|Closing a scheme Closing a scheme We provide good practice guidance to help trustees and others meet the two-year timeframe in relation to winding up occupational pension schemes. Trustees must ensure effective and efficient management of the scheme through wind-up and, in turn, enable at least the key activities to be completed as soon as reasonably practical (and within 2 years). 
file_871.txt|End of consultation: 23 Oct 2012 A consultation on the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations Network Rail's output framework for 2014-19 End of consultation: 28 Sep 2012 This consultation sought views on what Network Rail would need to deliver in 2014-19 (control period 5). It covered the 'output framework' - the outputs we would set Network Rail, the main indicators we would use to monitor the company and the enablers (measures of Network Rail's capability to deliver). Financial issues for Network Rail in CP5 End of consultation: 26 Sep 2012 This consultation sought views on detailed issues relating to the financial framework that would apply to Network Rail in CP5, as determined through PR13. End of consultation: 14 Sep 2012 A consultation on proposals to formalise the Rail Delivery Group (RDG). Variable usage charge and a freight specific charge End of consultation: 10 Aug 2012 This consultation sought views on our proposals relating to the variable usage charge paid by passenger and freight operators and our proposals to introduce a freight specific charge in control period 5. Aligning incentives to improve efficiency End of consultation: 12 Jul 2012 This consultation set out further detailed proposals relating to the alignment of incentives between Network Rail and train operators to improve cost efficiency. End of consultation: 11 Jun 2012 A consultation on changing our penalties statement. Changes to the station access conditions and independent station access conditions End of consultation: 28 May 2012 A consultation on our emerging conclusions on proposed changes to the station access conditions (SACs) and independent station access conditions (ISACs). End of consultation: 18 Apr 2012 A consultation on proposals for a review of access contractual arrangements across the board. End of consultation: 31 Mar 2012 A consultation on the implementation of the Equality Act 2010 at the Office of Rail Regulation. A greater role for ORR regulating passenger franchisees in England and Wales End of consultation: 2 Mar 2012 This consultation sought views on the potential for an expanded role for ORR in respect of new passenger rail franchises in England and Wales. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_543.txt|Safety certificates and authorisation Safety certificates and authorisation This page provides guidance on ROGS safety certificates and authorisations, how to apply, and useful links related to the application process. What is a safety management system? In essence, it is a formal arrangement for a safer working environment. All operators and duty holders are now required to have in place arrangements for managing safety risks. A safety management system defines roles and responsibilities, sets arrangements for safety mechanisms, involves workers in the process and ensures continuous improvement. What is safety certification and authorisation? Under ROGS, no one is able to operate vehicles or manage infrastructure on UK railway unless they have obtained the appropriate safety certificate or authorisation. Those operating transport require a certificate, and those who operate infrastructure (signals, track, bridges, etc) require an authorisation. If there is a train operating company that also manages infrastructure (for example, stations), they will need both a certificate and authorisation. Does everyone in the industry need certification or authorisation? All mainline operators require certification/authorisation. However, some lower risk non-mainline operations do not need one (such as heritage) but they still need a safety management system. Those excluded are: operations on a transport system with a maximum speed of 40kph (25 mph); and tramways, regardless of their speed. Is there just one certificate? For mainline railways, the safety certificate is issued according to a European harmonised format and comprises of two parts: Part A – a 'European portable' certificate demonstrating safety authority (the Office of Rail Regulation in Great Britain) acceptance of generic SMS components. This sets out the organisation's general safety management arrangements. Part B – a certificate demonstrating safety authority acceptance of the national provisions adopted by a railway operator. For non-mainline operators, there is only one certificate. Operating on both mainline and non-mainline railways Some trains are run on both mainline and non-mainline railways. Because a lot of the information needed is the same, you can apply for one certificate in one application to run on both (the application needs to be clear about which parts of it apply to the mainline railway and which parts apply to the non-mainline railway). Mainline transport undertakings that also run on non-mainline infrastructure should apply for a mainline certificate. The mainline certificate will cover operation on both types of infrastructure. Non-mainline transport undertakings that also run on the mainline infrastructure should apply for a non-mainline certificate. Such non-mainline operators must also show that their safety management systems are adequate for operation on the mainline railway. Where a holder of an existing mainline or non-mainline certificate proposes to operate a tram-train service on the mainline railway and they have not previously done so, this is likely to constitute a material change to their safety certificate and they must show that their safety management systems are adequate for tram-train operation on the mainline railway. Tram-trains will need a non-mainline certificate when they operate on the mainline railway. How do I make an application? Applicants should read the following document which provides information about the legislation, application process and what is required from the applicant: To apply for a mainline safety certificate, applicants are required to complete the application form.  There is no application form to complete for the following applications: Mainline safety authorisation Non-mainline safety certificate Non-mainline safety authorisation Applicants in the above three categories should provide in writing, the type of certificate or authorisation they are applying for. To be awarded a certificate or authorisation, the application must provide evidence that the safety management system is able to meet the assessment criteria. Upon submission of an application, the timescales for assessment will be around 4 months and we will then notify whether we will award the certificate or authorisation, or; refuse the application. If awarded, the certificate or authorisation will be valid for up to 5 years. Where can I find ROGS safety certificates and authorisations issued? The list of safety certificates and authorisations issued ( mainline and non-mainline ) contains dates of issue plus hyperlinks to the certificates/authorisations. All certificates and authorisations listed are currently valid. Unless otherwise indicated, the reasons for issue will be that the applicant has provided sufficient evidence that its safety management system (SMS) meets the requirements of the Regulations, and that provisions adopted by it meet the requirements necessary for safe operation. Where these reasons differ, or there are specific considerations, or the application has been rejected or revoked, links will also be provided to copies of the letters sent by us to the applicants/holders. Correspondence related to decisions is available, on request, to the public. Franchising In view of DfT timescales, it is necessary for all preferred bidders for a new franchise to prepare an application for a safety certificate (and authorisation, if appropriate) before the winning bidder is announced. The winning bidder must then submit their application to ORR within 3 days of the DfT announcement. All bidders are advised to make contact with ORR's Permissioning & Divisional Support Team Manager early in the process to discuss an application. Further information 
file_612.txt|Law requirements What does health and safety law require? What health and safety law requires on manager competence and training, as well as consultation with employees. The Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 requires you to provide whatever information, instruction, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health and safety at work of your employees. The Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999 also require employers: Under Regulations 3 and 5 to assess risks to  the health of employees, and to identify and put in place the control  measures needed to manage such risks; competence of individuals, including  front line managers and supervisors, is an important component of an  effective health and safety management system; Under Regulation 7 to have sufficient  competent health and safety assistance to meet requirements under health  and safety law; and Under Regulation 13 to ensure that employees  receive adequate health and safety training, and that individuals' health and safety capabilities are taken into account when assigning them  work. There is a legal duty on employers to consult safety representatives appointed by a recognised trade union (under the Safety Representatives and Safety Committees Regulations 1977), and a commitment under the Health and Safety (Consultation with Employees) Regulations 1996 to consult employees who are not represented by a trade union safety representative, on matters relevant to their health and safety. Although not a requirement of health and safety law, you will also need to take account of duties under the Equality Act 2010. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_550.txt|Common safety methods Common safety methods This page gives an overview of each common safety method (CSM) which has been adopted and published by the European Commission. Common safety methods are developed by the European Commission and the European Railway Agency (ERA) to support the single market in the rail sector. CSM for risk evaluation and assessment European Commission Regulation (EC) 352/2009 ( the CSM for risk evaluation and assessment ) came into force on 19 July 2010. It aims to harmonise the approach to risk assessment and evaluation of significant changes to railway subsystems. (Subsystems are infrastructure, energy, control-command and signalling, rolling stock, traffic operation and management, telematics applications for passenger and freight services, and maintenance).  Since 1July 2012, the CSM has applied to all significant changes which have safety implications i.e., technical, operational and organisational. ORR has produced guidance on the CSM for risk evaluation and assessment pdf icon PDF, 599 Kb . Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 402/2013 will replace Regulation 352/2009 with effect from 21 May 2015.  It contains provisions for the accreditation of assessment bodies by this date.  ORR is working with the United Kingdom Accreditation Service and the Department for Transport to develop an accreditation scheme. Mainline transport operators are required to report their experience of the CSM in their annual safety report .  From 21 May 2015 entities in charge of maintenance (ECMs) of freight wagons will be required to report their experience of the CSM in their annual maintenance report. CSM for conformity assessment (safety certificates) European Commission Regulation (EU) 1158/2010 ( the CSM for conformity assessment of safety certificates ) came into force on 3 January 2011.  It provides a common approach across the EU for the assessment of applications for safety certificates by national safety authorities. ORR has published an assessment criteria document pdf icon PDF, 1,465 Kb for applications for a mainline safety certificate which contains the provisions of the CSM. CSM for conformity assessment (safety authorisations) European Commission Regulation (EU) 1169/2010 ( the CSM for conformity assessment of safety authorisations ) came into force on 3 January 2011.  It provides a common approach across the EU for the assessment of applications for safety authorisations by national safety authorities. ORR has published an assessment criteria document pdf icon PDF, 1,465 Kb for applications for a mainline safety authorisation which contains the provisions of the CSM. CSM for monitoring European Commission Regulation 1078/2012 ( the CSM for monitoring ) came into force on 7 June 2010.  If provides a common approach for mainline transport operators and ECMs for all vehicles to control risks through their contractors.  It requires them to ensure that the risk control measures implemented by their contractors are monitored using the process in the CSM; and their contractors apply the same process through contractual arrangements. Mainline transport operators are required to report their experience of using the CSM in their annual safety report .  ECMs for freight wagons are required to report their experience of using the CSM for monitoring in their annual maintenance report. ERA has produced a guide for the application of the CSM for monitoring and the Rail Safety and Standards Board has produced a short guide on the CSM for monitoring . CSM for supervision European Commission Regulation (EU) 1077/2012 ( the CSM for supervision ) came into force on 7 June 2013.  It requires all national safety authorities across the EU to have common arrangements in place to oversee safety performance after they have granted safety certificates or safety authorisations. The CSM requires ORR to: have a strategy and plan(s) for supervising mainline transport operators; have clear techniques for how to conduct our supervisory activities; have clear links between the assessment for mainline safety certificates/authorisations and supervision activity; operate a competence management system for those conducting supervision activities; utilise decision-making criteria when evaluating transport operators' activities; and where necessary (such as cross-border railway operation activity) cooperate and coordinate our supervisory activity with other national safety authorities. We are also required to check the compliance of mainline transport operators and ECMs with the CSM for monitoring. Last updated - 12 November 2014 Back to top Related documents 
file_884.txt|New agreed contracts (Section 18) New agreed contracts (Section 18) This page contains all ORR decisions made in the last six months relating to agreed applications for new Track Access Contracts. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . Date 
file_622.txt|Asbestos law Asbestos law On this page we explain what the key legal requirements are for managing and controlling the risks from asbestos. What does the asbestos law cover? The Control of Asbestos Regulations 2012 (CAR) carried forward requirements previously contained in 'The Control of Asbestos Regulations 2006'. These regulations are for ORR to enforce in its areas of responsibility , except for licensed asbestos work. Regulation 4 sets out the requirements of the duty to manage asbestos. Regulation 8 requires licensed asbestos work to be undertaken by a contractor licensed by HSE. Under Regulation 9 that work must be notified to HSE at least 14 days in advance of the start date. Some types of unlicensed work with asbestos now needs to be notified to the relevant enforcing authority where they are likely to be above the control limits. Regulation 22 now includes a new requirement that from April 2015 workers who carry out notifiable non-licensed work with asbestos should have a medical examination every three years by a licensed medical practitioner. The legislation also sets out the requirements prior to any work with asbestos starting, such as: risk assessment; information, instruction and training; and the protective measures needed to prevent exposure to asbestos during and after work. Some requirements only apply to licensed work, for example regulations 18, 19 and 20 - asbestos designated area, air monitoring and air testing. The European regulation REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) prohibits the placing on the market of articles containing asbestos. We have new enforcement responsibilities under the REACH Enforcement (Amendment) Regulations 2013, which include the authority to issue asbestos exemptions. See the asbestos page for details of our role. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_565.txt|Our non-safety related accessibility work An overview of our non-safety related accessibility work. In addition to our routine health and safety work, we monitor operators' compliance with the passenger information elements of The Rail Vehicle Accessibility (Non-Interoperable Rail System) Regulations 2010 (RVAR). Most incidents investigated in 2013-14 related to wheelchair usage: the provision of staff assistance and ramps at the platform train interface, available station seating; and monitoring operators' announcements and passenger information displayed on trains. In two separate incidents in 2013-14, a wheelchair and a child's pushchair rolled across station platforms and on to the track. The wheelchair user was fortunate in only breaking her hip – such incidents could have resulted in serious injuries. The industry's PTI strategy group is looking at accessibility issue as they relate to the PTI. We periodically find examples of imperfect compliance with accessibility legislation, but more generally see evidence of the industry progressively removing accessibility barriers as we move towards the Department for Transport's target of all railway vehicles being accessible by 1 January 2020. Last updated - 1 August 2014 
file_465.txt|Who we work with Who we work with We work alongside rail infrastructure companies, the Westminster, Scottish and Welsh governments, other safety bodies and companies in the railway industry. We also work closely with expert panels and other bodies both in the UK and in Europe to ensure our regulatory approach is built on expertise, cutting-edge thinking and best practice. These organisations include the Railway Industry Health and Safety Advisory Committee, the ORR Expert Advisory Panel and the European Railway Agency Rail infrastructure The rail infrastructure in Britain is complex and comprises of a number of different bodies. Not only do we regulate the mainline rail, we are also the health and safety regulator for a number of other forms of transport that run on rail. Find out more about who we work with on Rail infrastructure . Governments A summary of the different government bodies we work with as part of our role as the safety and economic regulator of Britain's railways. Find out more on who we work with in Government. Other safety bodies A summary of the different safety bodies we work with as part of our role as the safety and economic regulator of Britain's railways. Find out more about other safety bodies that we work with . Our expert advisors Our Expert Advisory Panel provides external expertise in order to help us develop and test our thinking on issues of economic regulatory policy and practice. Find out more about our expert advisors . Industry companies and organisations A summary of the different railway industry companies and organisations we work with as part of our role as the safety and economic regulator of Britain's railways. Find out more about other industry organisations . Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) We have MoUs with a number of different government departments and agencies to promote effective coordination of the regulatory roles of each body, and effective cooperation between them. Find out more about our MoUs . UK Regulators' Network The UK's economic regulators have joined together in the UK Regulators' Network (UKRN) to ensure effective cooperation between sectors. UKRN has replaced the Joint Regulators Group (JRG). 
file_793.txt|Station access applications and decisions Station access applications and decisions This section contains station access applications and decisions made under s.17 of the Railways Act 1993 . Current applications and decisions 
file_68.txt|Detailed guidance Key points Ensure trustees give defined contribution (DC) scheme members the option of selecting a retirement product (eg an annuity) from an insurance company of their choice. Make sure trustees set up a process that enables them to communicate information about choosing the most appropriate retirement options. Ensure trustees provide members with access to an adviser or annuity broker, or they give them information to make their own decisions. Providing support to members If you are an independent financial adviser (IFA) or annuity broker, trustees may ask you to help members make decisions at retirement. You should liaise with the trustees or employer as necessary. In accordance with Financial Conduct Authority rules, you must confirm and agree the costs with the member before you conduct investment business. Providing support to trustees Open market option Make sure that members are made aware of the open market option at least four months before their expected retirement date. This means giving members the option of selecting an annuity from an insurance company of their choice and one other than they saved with. Retirement process Work with trustees to set up a retirement process that helps members to receive a good outcome from their pension savings. The process should ensure you start communicating with members a number of years before they retire. Make sure trustees consider: deferred and active members members with small and large pots members with multiple pots members choosing to retire at different ages, including those retiring in difficult circumstances, such as ill health. The process should set out the key activities, timeframes and who is responsible for them. It could include the following stages: ensure the member understands retirement ensure the member understands the different ways to take retirement income ensure the member understands how to buy products implement member’s decisions review the retirement process and monitor outcomes. Make sure the process enables you or the trustees to act without delay and that members purchasing annuities on the open market are made aware they need to act promptly to avoid missing out on the best rates. Types of support To support scheme members at retirement you could either provide access to an IFA or annuity broker, or provide information so that members can make their own decisions. You may wish to refer members to information from organisations such as the Money Advice Service or the Pensions Advisory Service to help them make their decisions. Your pension: it’s time to choose is a useful guide from the Money Advice Service for DC scheme members who are close to retiring and have a pension pot to convert into retirement income. 
file_85.txt|Back to top Next steps if you have concerns about pension scams Contact the pension scheme member to establish whether they understand the type of scheme they’ll be transferring to and send them the pension scams scorpion booklet . Speak to the member at risk – over the phone, via email or letter. It could help you establish answers to more of the questions in the checklist in the pension scams action pack , where you’ve been unable to answer them with the information you have available. Direct the member to Action Fraud if you think it’s a pension scam, or the Pensions Advisory Service who can help them understand the potential tax consequences of the transfer if any part of the arrangement is deemed as unauthorised. If the member insists on proceeding with their transfer request, and your concerns remain, then you should alert Action Fraud yourself. There could still be time to protect this member, or others who follow in their footsteps. 
file_1002.txt|Skip to content Skip to navigation Office for Nuclear Regulation This website uses non-intrusive cookies to improve your user experience. You can visit our cookie privacy page for more information. 
file_777.txt|We have published our conclusions on the reform of Schedule 5 pdf icon PDF, 1,508 Kb Erratum notice In paragraph 3.39 of our Schedule 5 conclusions document, we said: "It [Network Rail] proposes that TOCs consider aligning train planning resource alongside those at Network Rail and co-locating on a regional basis to improve communication, reduce duplication, align processes and save costs". This sentence should read: "It proposes that TOCs consider aligning some of their train planning resource alongside its own, with Network Rail maintaining overall objectivity in decision making. It envisages a 'Centre of Excellence' for train planning which would improve communication, reduce duplication, align processes and save costs". We recognise that the words "on a regional basis" contained in our conclusions do not accurately reflect Network Rail's response, and apologise for the misrepresentation and any confusion caused. Background This page contains information on the workstream of our wider industry reform programme which deals specifically with a review of access contractual and consultation arrangements. In response to the Rail Value for Money Study , we have launched a wide-ranging industry reform programme, with the aim of working with the industry to address the recommendations made in the study's final report. One workstream of this programme is specifically concerned with ORR identifying and developing options for streamlining industry contractual change and consultation processes. In order to consider the available options, we wrote to the industry on 23 September 2011 to explain that we would not grant extensions to access rights beyond December 2013 in their current highly prescriptive form. 
file_206.txt|3ml 1 Unit Autopen Classic 7PN Autopen 24 3ml 2 Unit 7PP Autopen 24 3ml 1 Unit 7RV 3ml 2 Unit Autopen Classic 8KK 3ml 2 Unit Autopen Classic 8XD Autopen 24 3ml 2 Unit MHRA Clinical Director of Devices, Dr Neil McGuire said: “It is vital that people check if they have these affected pens and should obtain an alternative device before stopping using them. People should seek a replacement at the earliest opportunity by contacting Owen Mumford at: technical.support@owenmumford.co.uk or visiting their pharmacist. “Patients who experience unexpectedly raised blood glucose on self-testing or symptoms of hyperglycaemia, regardless of which insulin delivery device they are using should contact a healthcare professional immediately, if it does not respond to their usual rescue treatment. “We continue to encourage people to report incidents involving medical devices to the MHRA via yellowcard ” Notes to Editor 1. Please see link to the MDA 2. The MHRA is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in the UK by ensuring they work and are acceptably safe. Underpinning all our work lies robust and fact-based judgments to ensure that the benefits justify any risks. The MHRA is a centre of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency which also includes the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). The MHRA is an executive agency of the Department of Health. www.mhra.gov.uk Page last modified: 		 		17 December 2014 
file_879.txt|Current track access applications Current track access applications All documents relating to track access applications we are currently considering. This may include application forms, draft agreements, any related documents and responses we make public. Once we've made a decision, these documents will be removed from this section and relevant documents will be published in the track access decisions section. 
file_761.txt|Track access decisions Track access decisions This section contains the most recent decisions we have made. For access decisions made more than 6 months ago up to 2 years ago, please see the Decisions library . All approved agreements and subsequently approved amendments to track access decisions are held on our public register . Decisions 
file_408.txt|
file_40.txt|Winding up a scheme Key points If you’re considering closing a pension scheme to either new members or to future accruals, you should discuss this with the trustees or managers of your pension scheme to understand any changes that may be required to the trust deed and rules of the scheme to effect this change and, if applicable, undertake a consultation with the affected members of the scheme. If you’re winding up a defined benefit (DB) scheme you need to understand what the consequences are and whether a debt under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995 (section 75 debt) may become due. Closing a scheme to new members or future accruals As mentioned in funding your defined benefit scheme , if you're considering closing your scheme to new members or to further benefit accruals, whether it be a DB or defined contribution (DC) scheme, these should be discussed with the trustees or managers of your pension scheme. The scheme’s trust deed or rules may require amendment to effect this change and, depending on how many employees you have, as the employer you may also be required to consult affected employees before making these changes as they are considered 'listed changes' under the applicable regulations. Statement Employer duty to consult on scheme changes (PDF, 29kb, 2 pages) Statement issued during the Department for Work and Pensions' consultation period on amending regulations to give The Pensions Regulator the power to impose financial penalties for breaches of the employer consultation requirements. The employer duty to consult is set out in sections 259-261 of the Pensions Act 2004, the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Consultation by Employers and Miscellaneous Amendment) Regulations 2006 as amended, and the Occupational Pension Schemes (Consultation by Employers) (Modification for Multi-employer Schemes) Regulations 2006. 
file_696.txt|Network licence Network licence Network Rail's network licence requires it to comply with the conditions we set in the public interest. Network Rail operates under a network licence pdf icon PDF, 231 Kb . This licence contains a set of conditions under which Network Rail must operate. As the operator and owner of the national rail infrastructure, it has a key role to play in railway safety and improving railway performance and efficiency. The network licence is a tool we have for holding Network Rail to account. Network Rail's station licence pdf icon PDF, 83 Kb authorises it to operate one or more stations. In this section: 
file_389.txt|Welding, hot work and allied processes - WL series Listed above are a limited number of the COSHH Essentials guidance publications. For more information on COSHH Essentials and a more comprehensive range of COSHH Essentials publications please see the COSHH Essentials website . Popular COSHH downloads 
file_332.txt|Statistics Contact HSE Our website contains a comprehensive range of health and safety information and guidance that provides facts on health and safety legislation and what businesses have to do. Start by looking under the relevant topic or industry section. HSE does not operate a telephone helpline for general health and safety information. If you need to engage the services of a health and safety consultant, you may wish to visit the Occupational Safety and Health Consultants Register (OSHCR) . 
file_300.txt|Create reports using our NRT Portal report wizard Browse reports / data 
file_795.txt|Licensing Licensing Licensing is one of our core statutory functions. If you want to operate a train, station, network or light maintenance depot you will need to be covered by a licence or licence exemption. Through licensing we promote effective and efficient working relationships between industry parties and safeguarding the public interest. 
file_636.txt|Mark I and hinged door rolling stock exemptions Applying for an exemption for Mark 1 or hinged door rolling stock. What do the regulations say? The Railway Safety Regulations 1999 (RSR) required the withdrawal of unmodified Mark I rolling stock from 1 January 2005. Mark 1 rolling stock is less crashworthy than modern stock and there are risks to passengers from pull down windows and the absence of central door locking. RSR regulation 4 prohibited the operation of Mark I rolling stock after 31 December 2002 unless it had been modified to prevent, so far as practicable, over-riding in the event of a collision. RSR regulation 5 prohibited the operation of hinged door rolling stock without central locking from 1 January 2005. RSR regulation 6 provides us with a wide-ranging power to grant exemptions. We are able to consider all circumstances of the case in reaching a decision. Mark I and hinged door rolling stock exemptions Regulations 4 and 5 Exemptions in force DB Schenker Rail (UK) Ltd DB Schenker certificates 
file_800.txt|Approval of DPPPs for new franchises or new operators Approval of DPPPs for new franchises or new operators Newly licensed operators or those with new franchise awards must establish and comply with a DPPP. The licence condition sets out the steps required: consultation with the relevant passenger representative groups (Passenger Focus and London TravelWatch); submission to ORR for approval. Submissions to ORR should include: the draft DPPP; and feedback from the consultation, and an explanation of how the feedback has been taken into account. Criteria and process for approval Criteria The existing 2009 guidance pdf icon PDF, 672 Kb for DPPP forms the basis of ORR's review and approval of operators DPPP. Operators should satisfy themselves that they meet the standards and criteria in this guidance. For the policy document, our review will in particular assess the operator's approach to: delivering assistance, promoting awareness of the assistance available and facilitating travel by those with disabilities (including those with less visible disabilities); monitoring and evaluating performance in respect of the above (for which we will want to understand the operator's own benchmarks for what it considers to be a successful performance), and the processes in place for acting on this to drive continuous improvement; capturing and responding to feedback from customers; and how the organisation is structured to deliver these arrangements. We will also consider the extent to which the operator can evidence that it has the right organisational values and behaviours towards disability. This includes the extent to which its senior management team is engaged with, and provides leadership and support to the frontline staff that deliver assistance,  and ensures that the right processes and systems are in place. The passenger document should follow the 2009 guidance, with particular emphasis on covering all mandatory or required standards. It is important that passenger-facing DPPPs are as clear as possible. We will consult stakeholders on whether greater standardisation in wording or presentation is  valuable. Read our DPPP regulatory statement pdf icon PDF, 304 Kb . Process We will acknowledge receipt of the DPPP and supporting documents within 5 working days; We will conduct the relevant consultation, as required by the licence. We aim to review and approve submitted DPPP within 20 working days of receipt of consultation responses; Operators should expect to assist us with resolving specific queries or issues. Where we have substantive concerns we will discuss these, and allow additional time for revisions to DPPP. In these cases we aim to resolve concerns within an agreed timescale. Further information 
file_140.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Complete and accurate record-keeping: your role Trustees and administrators have a vital role to play in ensuring defined contribution (DC) pension schemes have complete and accurate records. Good quality member data Record-keeping is at the heart of a good quality pension scheme. Poor data can have a major impact on members and cost a lot of time and money to fix. Having complete and accurate member data forms a part of the 31 quality features that we expect to see in well-managed DC schemes. Record-keeping continues to be one of our main areas of focus. We have recently opened a number of cases into schemes where we needed to investigate further their standards of record-keeping. Trustees and administrators need to work together effectively to ensure that schemes have complete and accurate member data that is reviewed regularly. Trustees Even if you outsource the management of your scheme data to an administrator, you are responsible for the quality of that data. For good practice tips, including working effectively with an administrator, read our quick guide to record-keeping: 
file_14.txt|Closing a scheme What will automatic enrolment cost me? You will need to contribute to the pensions of any staff who are eligible for automatic enrolment. In addition, there’ll be costs associated with setting up and running the pension scheme. There may be other costs. This page highlights areas where you may incur a cost. However, the cost of implementing and maintaining automatic enrolment will vary widely between employers. Some may be able to absorb all the additional activity in-house, while others will turn to external suppliers or seek external advice. On this page Several areas of your business will be impacted by automatic enrolment. The main cost will be time - some areas require detailed preparations. You may have to buy or enhance software to manage the day-to-day activities of automatic enrolment, eg payroll. Preparations will impact upon your staff’s time and you might decide to bring in additional help. Costs associated with the pension scheme Compulsory employer contributions are the main costs associated with the pension scheme. You’ll have to pay a minimum employer contribution for everyone you automatically enrol and anyone who opts in. The minimum amount is being phased in, starting at 1% and rising to 3% of staff’s qualifying earnings - for more information go to contributions and funding . Use our calculator below to work out your minimum employer contribution for a member of staff. Other costs will vary depending on your provider and the scheme you choose. Back to top Getting the right business software You’ll need software in place that can handle the requirements of automatic enrolment. This will usually be your payroll system. Sometimes, pension providers may offer this service instead. Speak to your payroll provider about what they can offer. You may have to pay for any upgrades to your existing software. If an upgrade isn’t available, you’ll need to decide whether to get new software that’s been designed to handle automatic enrolment. Or see if you can get additional software and integrate it into your existing payroll system - there may be a cost for this. For more information go to business software . Back to top Additional work for existing suppliers You are able to delegate many of the automatic enrolment duties to a third party, such as your accountant or a financial adviser, if you wish. If you do this, they may charge extra for their time and services. Back to top Time You may be able to absorb all of the preparations in-house, in which case the main cost to your business will be time. We can’t tell you how much extra time you’ll need as this will vary a lot between employers. But you need to be aware that time will be a significant cost. Once automatic enrolment is up and running, there’ll be a little extra time required each month to manage the ongoing automatic enrolment responsibilities . Back to top Independent financial advice Seeking financial advice is optional, but if you decide to speak to a financial adviser, there will usually be a fee. The main area in which you may want to seek financial advice is finding a pension scheme that’s most suited to your business. 
file_442.txt|About ORR About ORR The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) is the independent safety and economic regulator for Britain's railways. We are here to ensure the network operates safely, reliably and provides value for taxpayers and customers. We safeguard the public and the workforce by regulating the rail industry's health and safety performance. We hold Network Rail to account – and we require it to provide passengers with a punctual, reliable service. We make sure that train and freight operating companies have fair access to the rail network, and that the market is competitive and fair. Our functions Our safety and economic functions are driven by EU and UK legislation – and we are accountable to Parliament and the courts. Read an overview of our role How we work We plan our activities in the context of our long-term vision for the railways, based on our strategic objectives. 
file_729.txt|HS1 PR14 HS1 periodic review 2014 (PR14) The 2014 periodic review (PR14) of High Speed 1 (HS1) was the first periodic review for HS1 Limited and covers the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2020, control period 2 (CP2). Under regulation 13 of the Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 , we have to ensure that HS1 Limited is provided with incentives to reduce the cost of allowing access to its infrastructure and level of access charges. We perform this function through periodic reviews in the manner set out in the concession agreement . Please see our final approval document dated 9 May 2014. On 21 July 2014 we published a notice implementing the contractual changes to the review provisions for passenger operators, and a notice implementing the contractual changes to the review provisions for freight operators: 
file_820.txt|Train driving licences & certificates Train driving licences and certificates Any new driver must have a train driver licence and certificate to drive on the mainline railway. Existing drivers will need both by 29 October 2018. Doctors, psychometric assessors and training and examination centres who assess new train drivers must be recognised by ORR.  Details of the requirements and how to apply for licences or recognition are below. Legal requirements The Train Driving Licences and Certificates Regulations 2010 (TDLCR) sets out the legal requirements of the licensing and certification system for train drivers in Great Britain. This brings into force the requirements of European Commission Directive 2007/59/EC on the certification of train drivers. A revised guide pdf icon PDF, 2,245 Kb to TDLCR was published in July 2014. The Directive forms part of the European Commission's plan to improve the efficiency and competitiveness of Europe's railways. The key objectives of both the Directive and TDLCR are to: make it easier for cross-border rail services to operate; create a more flexible labour market for train drivers; introduce common standards of driver across Europe; and increase public confidence in the rail system through the requirement for certain groups of train drivers to hold a licence. Licence applications Train drivers or their employers can apply for a train driver licence. The application form doc icon DOC, 238 Kb and guidance pdf icon PDF, 88 Kb on completing it are available to download. Applications should be emailed to RSD Admin or sent to: Railway Safety Directorate WC2B 4AN Recognition of assessors Doctors or psychometric assessors who carry out the medical and psychological fitness assessments (under Regulation 8) of train drivers must apply to be recognised by ORR. Training and examination centres who train and examine the professional knowledge and competence (under Regulations 30 and 31) must also apply for recognition. There are recognition routes for doctors pdf icon PDF, 27 Kb , psychometric assessors pdf icon PDF, 36 Kb , trainers pdf icon PDF, 27 Kb and examination centres pdf icon PDF, 29 Kb . These give guidance on the evidence needed to support a recognition application. Applications should be emailed to RSD Admin or sent to the address above. You can find out who is recognised from our published registers of doctors xls icon XLS, 52 Kb , psychometric assessors xls icon XLS, 57 Kb and training and examination centres xls icon XLS, 48 Kb (as required under Regulation 23(1)). Enforcement As enforcing authority for the TDLCR we will use the principles established in our HSWA enforcement policy statement to ensure compliance with these statutory requirements. Train driver certificate appeals Drivers can appeal against a decision of a train operating company (under Regulation 36 of TDLCR) not to issue a train driver certificate or to update or renew it. The appeal can also be made if the certificate is suspended or withdrawn. The company's internal appeal procedure must have been used before ORR would consider any appeal it received. We have published guidance doc icon DOC, 401 Kb on the ORR appeal process which includes an application form. Applications should be emailed to RSD Admin or sent to the address above under licence applications. Further information 
file_409.txt|HSE podcasts are free audio presentations - similar to radio programmes. You can listen to HSE podcasts: on the HSE website by downloading podcasts to your computer by subscribing - automatically receive the latest episode More about podcasts HSL Centenary In this special edition of the HSE Podcast, we look at the work of the Health and Safety Laboratory. HSL Centenary podcast Changes to incident reporting and Infoline services In this episode: We look at changes to how businesses can report incidents to HSE, the closure of Infoline and improvements being made to the HSE website. 
file_425.txt|
file_940.txt|Accessibility statement Accessibility statement We are committed and actively working to ensure orr.gov.uk is usable and accessible to the widest possible audience, regardless of disability, capability or technology. Our intention is to conform to the Guidelines for UK government websites, which support the W3C's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, Level AA. This accessibility statement applies only to the Office of Rail Regulation website at www.orr.gov.uk . This policy does not apply to any other site. Adobe Acrobat PDF format Most of our PDF files published on our website after January 2010 have been tagged to allow basic accessibility; previous PDFs will be tagged as resources allow. If you have a particular request for a PDF to be optimised for accessibility then please contact the web team. PDF files can be read using Adobe Reader software, which is available for many different computer systems including Windows, Macintosh, Linux and Palm. Visit the Adobe website to obtain the Adobe Reader software . For more information about PDF accessibility see the Adobe website accessibility section . Microsoft Word and Excel formats Microsoft documents and spread sheets can still be read even if you have not bought the commercial Word and Excel programs. Microsoft offer a range of free 'viewer' programs for download; however, these programs are only available for Windows systems. Word and Excel viewers are available from the Microsoft website . Get help 
file_109.txt|What do I do if I'm not sure of the benefit type of the scheme? The benefit type of your scheme will be one of the following three types: defined benefit (DB) - offers a pension based on how much a member earns and how long they are an employed member of the pension scheme defined contribution (DC) - offers a pension based on value of the fund that has accrued as a result of contributions that have been made together with the investment returns hybrid scheme - a combination of DC and DB. Please refer to your scheme trust deed and rules which should indicate the benefit structure of your scheme. What do we mean by active, deferred and pensioner members? Broadly active, deferred and pensioner members are: Active members: members of an occupational pension scheme who are at present accruing benefits under that scheme in respect of current service. Deferred members: members of an occupational scheme who have accrued benefits under that scheme relating to their past service and who are no longer active members but have not yet retired. These members may continue to work for the employer, or have left the employment of the employer associated with the scheme. This category of membership will remain until every individual in that category either transfers their pension entitlement to an alternative pension arrangement or starts to take their pension entitlement as a retirement pension. Pensioner members: members who are entitled to payment of a retirement benefit that is payable by the trustees or managers of the pension scheme in respect of their pensionable service. This will include individual annuities in payment where the annuity is written in the name of the trustees or managers of the scheme. A member who has taken their pension entitlement by purchasing an annuity in their own name is not classed a pensioner member. Is it still necessary to complete a scheme return if my scheme is winding up? Yes. You're still legally required to complete a scheme return even if your scheme is in the process of winding up. However, you’re not expected to complete a scheme return if your scheme has fully wound up. You can notify us if your scheme has been wound up by completing the initial questions in Exchange. If your scheme is winding up and you're experiencing problems with completing your scheme return contact us . Further scheme return guidance What do I do if I receive an overdue notice but not the initial scheme return notice? We issue a scheme return notice to the contact listed in our records at the time it's issued. If you’ve updated your scheme return contact since the original notice was issued an overdue notice is sent to the new contact. The overdue notice has all the information you need to login to Exchange to complete the scheme return. You don’t need to have the original scheme return notice to complete your scheme return. What do I do if I receive a scheme return notice for a scheme I don't recognise? If you receive a scheme return notice for a scheme you don't recognise contact us . What should I do if I complete the scheme return for the wrong scheme? Log back into Exchange and amend the information. If you're unable to do this please contact us . Do I need to complete a return for The Pensions Regulator if I complete a return for HMRC? Yes. The HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) scheme return is entirely separate to The Pensions Regulator's scheme return. We collect data for different purposes to HMRC. After you complete your scheme return What happens after I submit the scheme return? Once you have submitted your scheme return you will receive a confirmation email (the email is sent to the Exchange user account from which the scheme return was submitted). Trustees (and managers) are legally required to notify us of any changes to their registrable information. This includes changes to the following details: name and / or address of the scheme employer or trustee scheme's status number of scheme members. You can access your scheme information via Exchange at any time to update any information that has changed. Keeping your scheme information up to date will also help you complete your scheme return more quickly and efficiently. Can I change any information on the scheme return after I submit it? Trustees (and managers) are legally required to notify us of any changes to their registrable information. This includes changes to the following details: name and / or address of the scheme employer or trustee scheme's status number of scheme members. You can access your scheme information via Exchange at any time to update information that has changed. Keeping your scheme information up to date will also help you complete your scheme return more quickly and efficiently. In the past you may have used form PR10 to let us know of any changes. However, you can now access this online scheme maintenance system at any time, enabling you to update your scheme information with changes as and when they happen. You no longer need to complete a form PR10. 
file_692.txt|Historic income and expenditure 2014 Analysis of Network Rail's historic income and expenditure This analysis provides information about Network Rail's historic income, expenditure and efficiency. The information is for Great Britain and where possible England & Wales and Scotland separately. More detail about Network Rail income and expenditure can be found in its regulatory accounts, which are available on Network Rail's website . Historic expenditure OMR expenditure in Great Britain Table A1: Historic expenditure for Great Britain £m, 2013-14 prices 
file_296.txt|Create reports using our NRT Portal report wizard Search for report / data Enter the report title or keyword Secondary menu 
file_37.txt|Questions your staff may ask you about your pension scheme. Advise your members about their retirement options including annuities and other options. Where your pension scheme members can go for further independent retirement advice. Thinking about retiring Most defined contribution (DC) pension schemes write to their members up to five years before they expect them to retire. Your staff can check their possible retirement income on the Money Advice Service website and request an estimate of their State Pension on the GOV.UK website . Back to top Retirement options and decisions Your pension scheme should send members information about their options and the decisions they need to make. At this stage, they need to: decide whether they want to retire now or later decide whether to take a cash lump sum choose a suitable retirement income product decide what to do if they only have a small pension pot decide what to do if they have more than one pension pot. There is a code of conduct on retirement choices for consumers in the retirement income market (PDF) which has been developed by the Association of British Insurers. Your product provider or trustees could use this as a guide to sending information to members at the appropriate times. Different types of retirement income Your pension scheme members have a choice of options when converting their pension funds into retirement income. Lifetime annuity At retirement, many pension scheme members choose to buy a lifetime annuity with their pension pot which provides them with a regular payment for life. There are different types of annuity to choose from including joint annuities, increasing annuities and annuities based on your health. Usually they can shop around to choose which provider they want to buy it from. Once someone has taken out an annuity, they can’t change their mind and get their pension pot back, so it’s very important to get this decision right. The Pensions Advisory Service’s online annuity planner will help them through the decision-making process for choosing a retirement income product. Other retirement income choices There are other options available which are only suitable for members with a large pension pot or other sources of income. These include income drawdown, fixed-term annuities, hybrid products and phased retirement. Your staff should get professional financial advice if they’re considering any of these options. For more about finding a professional adviser go to the Money Advice Service . For more detailed information about income drawdown go to the Pensions Advisory Service . Back to top Further advice for your staff For free, unbiased independent retirement advice, including a useful guide for defined contribution (DC) scheme members who are close to retiring and have a pension pot to convert into retirement income, go to the Money Advice Service . For free independent information and guidance on pensions go to the Pensions Advisory Service . 
file_185.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) No product is ever risk free. Some of the risks are known about when a medicine is first licensed or medical device first used. However, some information only comes to light later as more people use the products. This section includes current and historic alerts, messages and advice and guidance we have issued about products. This section also includes our safety reporting forms for medicines, medical devices and blood. Safety warnings, alerts and recalls This section includes current and historic Drug Alerts on defective medicines, Medical Device Alerts and safety warnings and messages about medicines, including letters sent to health professionals. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this General safety information and advice This section contains specific information on products such as hormone replacement therapy, breast implants, the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine and testing kits. It also contains advice for consumers, such as the risks of buying medicines over the internet, using herbal medicines and leaving hospital with a medical device. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this How we monitor the safety of products This section provides information on how the MHRA monitors the safety of medicines, medical devices and blood. It includes information on reporting, pharmacovigilance and what happens when reports are made. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Medicines information This section of the website is a gateway for medicines information, bringing together different types of information that outline the properties, safety profile, and conditions for use of a particular medicine. It has been developed in accordance with Directive 2010/84/EU (the new pharmacovigilance legislation). The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Reporting safety problems Go to the section on reporting safety problems Information for healthcare professional specialties As part of our continuing drive to support healthcare professionals, we have set up this section comprising information relevant to different healthcare professional specialities. Go to the information for healthcare professional specialties Drug Safety Update (DSU) Drug Safety Update is our monthly newsletter for healthcare professionals, bringing you information and clinical advice on the safe use of medicines. Go to Drug Safety Update Risk communications This section provides information on specific projects the MHRA is undertaking to assess and potentially improve its communications activities which relate to risk, and includes the review we are currently undertaking of the Central Alerting System (CAS). 
file_148.txt|Jobs We offer a modern working environment with a focus on high performance and delivery of worthwhile results. With over a million employers set to start automatically enrolling staff into a pension scheme, millions of people will soon be saving more for retirement. Join our expanding team for the chance to oversee the biggest change to pensions in a generation. Find out more - view our current vacancies. See related content 
file_497.txt|Alan Sutherland Background to UKRN We all rely on essentials such as transport, energy, water, communications and financial services. Many companies that provide these essential services are in the private sector and we rely on them to improve, innovate and invest, so they continue to deliver our essential services efficiently and effectively. Many of these companies operate in markets where competition plays an important part in providing effective protection for consumers and where regulation is important to promote competition. Sometimes, however, competition is not practical or possible, for example for infrastructure networks which are natural monopolies. Where competition cannot be relied on, companies need to be held accountable in the interests of consumers and to ensure efficiency, quality of service, environmental standards and fair trading. The UK leads the world in using independent regulation to achieve this accountability. This can be through promoting competition, and regulators also use systems of incentives and penalties to protect consumer interests, for example in monopoly networks. Economic regulators are independent. They work for consumers, for households and business customers, not for industry or government. This independence enables regulators to work for the long-term, to build conditions for stability and improvement, so that industry and service providers can innovate and develop new solutions to serve the underlying needs of consumers, not the interests of industry groups. Many regulatory decisions are controversial, which may be inevitable given the importance of the issues at stake. Regulators operate under public scrutiny and are held accountable to Parliament and to the courts. Over decades, the independence and expertise of the UK regulators have brought improvements across service areas, by challenging regulated organisations to do better and by ensuring that improvements can be delivered. Independent regulators' consistency and long-term approach have enabled many billions of pounds of investment, with more competition and innovation. The presence of regulation means that investors see risks as low, so they accept dividends or interest rates that provide returns as low as anywhere in the world, benefiting the bill-payer. Regulation and the investment it helps to attract has delivered reliability and resilience, improved customer service, more choice and better value for money for consumers. Investment is also enabling improvements to environmental impacts in many sectors. Consumer prices are affected by many factors, but overall they are lower than they otherwise would be because stable and independent regulation challenges and incentivises industry to improve efficiency. The UK faces a big investment challenge in the next few years. Money is mobile, which makes a reliable investment climate even more important for the UK. Stable and independent regulation is important to ensure continued delivery for consumers and the economy. Many regulators work with international partners, in Europe and beyond, to share knowledge and build strong frameworks for globalised markets and networks. In the UK the nine independent economic regulators have joined together in the UK Regulators' Network (UKRN), led by CEOs, to ensure effective cooperation and strengthen work across sectors. Without cutting across the independence of each regulator, and their ability to make the best judgements for the sectors they regulate, UKRN exists to deliver efficient solutions that take account of and explain differences between sectors while providing clarity, coherence and shared approaches that benefit consumers and the economy. Work programme highlights In its work programme UKRN will tackle the most significant and pressing challenges facing regulated sectors. Not all the issues the network addresses will be relevant to all members. UKRN will bring together the right group of members to examine each issue and to ensure that solutions are implemented as consistently as possible. The work programme will be published in early May and will include: Facilitating efficient multi-sector infrastructure investment projects Promoting consumer engagement and switching in regulated markets Assessing cross-sector network resilience and cyber-security Developing a clear understanding of the overall affordability of regulated services for consumers Last updated - 26 June 2014 
file_172.txt|
file_360.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_36.txt|Closing a scheme Comparing costs for DB schemes It’s important that you understand how much it costs to run your defined benefit (DB) pension scheme. These costs can include fees for administration, advice and services to members. The amount you pay to run your scheme will vary depending on its design and needs, its complexity and the trustee and sponsoring employer's own skills. So understanding what you are paying and the range of charges for each type of cost is important. We have produced a tool that shows information about costs in schemes of various sizes. You may find it helpful to compare what you pay to run your own scheme against the typical cost for schemes of a similar size. You can use our tool to view highlights from our defined benefit (DB) scheme running costs research report 2014 and compare costs information for schemes of a similar size to your own. See related content in the employers' section You need to ensure your DB pension scheme is appropriately funded and that contributions are paid on time. Share this page using: 
file_370.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_614.txt|Good practice guidance What rail managers need to know on occupational health - good practice guidance Detailed good practice guidance on the core areas on occupational health that most front line rail managers will need to understand. We have identified a number of key health management topics which we believe most front line managers in the rail industry will need to understand. The depth of knowledge and level of detail will vary depending of the nature and extent of the potential health risks, as well as local factors including the amount of specialist support available to the individual manager. Occupational health training should enable managers to do their job better and work more effectively with qualified occupational health practitioners. The summary of core knowledge requirements below is not intended to be a comprehensive list, and does not cover all specific legal requirements relating to occupational health. It aims to provide a starting point for rail companies to use as part of a training needs analysis for those managers that have front line involvement in, or responsibility for, managing occupational health risks. Managers will also need to understand the policies and procedures in place in your business for controlling occupational health risks. Core knowledge areas on occupational health for rail managers A. Understanding the need for effective management of work related ill health, including: Key relevant legal requirements under health and safety (and also equality) law; and The business case for preventing work related ill health (including the extent of work related ill health), beyond costs to include the wider business benefits. B. Health risk assessment – principles and methods of assessing risks to health from: Chemical hazards - substances hazardous to health, including recognised or potential carcinogens (such as asbestos, silica, and diesel engine exhaust emissions), sensitisers (such as isocyanates, cement, epoxy resins), and process by-products such as dust and fume; Physical hazards – including noise, vibration, musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs), and radiation (where relevant); Psychological hazards – work related stress, including HSE Management Standards approach to assessing and managing stress risk at an organisational rather than individual level; Biological hazards – including from bacteria (such as legionella, leptospirosis; tetanus); and viruses (for example from contact with body fluids); The role of exposure limits (including for hazardous substances, and noise and vibration) and use of exposure monitoring to inform health risk assessments; and Importance of making health risk assessments task specific (including use of and limitations of pro-formas and proprietary software packages), and consideration of activities with potential for very high exposures (including maintenance and equipment failure). C. Principles of control for health risks Specific legal duties relating to prevention of exposure, or where not reasonably practicable, to adequately control exposure; Hierarchy of control – prevention, substitution, engineering/technical and procedural controls, before reliance on personal protective equipment (PPE); Selection of suitable personal protective equipment, including face fit testing of respiratory protective equipment (RPE); Maintenance, examination and testing of control measures; Information, instruction and  training on health risks and use of controls; and Role of HSE management standards approach and management competency framework in managing risks from work related stress. D. Monitoring of worker health and adequacy of risk controls Role and function of health surveillance, including specific role of biological monitoring, in managing specific health risks (for example lead, isocyanates, hand arm vibration, noise); Fitness for work and role of pre-employment health screening; Reporting cases of work related ill health, including legal requirements under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013; Absence management and return to work, and use of ill health data (including absence and health surveillance records) to identify and improve risk controls; and Role of Human Resources and occupational health specialists, including, where relevant, medical staff, occupational hygienists and ergonomists, in working with line managers in ensuring proper management of health risks. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_9.txt|Closing a scheme What happens if I don't comply? There are certain employer duties you must comply with. If you fail to comply with your duties, we may take enforcement action and issue a notice and / or a penalty. Received a penalty notice? You can now pay your notice online You can pay your penalty using our secure online payment service. Please have your penalty notice reference handy (shown on the front of your notice). On this page Key points The responsibility for complying with the employer duties rests with the employer. If you don’t comply, you’ll face enforcement action in line with our risk-based approach. Enforcement action starts with statutory notices and is followed by penalty notices. Further non compliance may result in court action. If you have received a penalty notice, you can now pay your notice online. Our overall approach We recognise that most employers will want to do the right thing for their staff. Our overall approach is to educate and enable you to comply with the legislation. This puts you in a position to make the right choices and decisions. However, the responsibility for complying will rest with you, the employer. We will promote good compliance behaviour among employers by ensuring that the legislation is being applied fairly. In cases where you haven’t understood your duties or have been unable to comply, we’ll work with you to get you compliant. But if you have chosen to ignore your duties, we will use our powers where necessary to ensure compliance. Those who do not comply will face enforcement action in line with our risk-based approach. Back to top How we will enforce We will investigate breaches of the law in a fair and objective manner. We can issue formal notices requesting information and can carry out inspections. We will effectively enforce against non-compliance and have a range of civil and criminal enforcement measures at our disposal. We shall carry out our work within the better regulation principles to ensure we regulate in a way that is proportionate, accountable, consistent, transparent and targeted. Back to top Our enforcement options Our full range of enforcement options is summarised below and also explained in the quick guide to our compliance and enforcement strategy at the end of this page. Informal action We can issue guidance and instruction by telephone, email, letter and in person. Or we can send a warning letter confirming a set time frame for compliance with the duties. Statutory notices Statutory notices can direct you to comply with your duties and / or pay any contributions you have missed or are late in paying. We have further discretionary powers which allow us to estimate and charge interest on unpaid contributions and direct you to calculate and / or pay unpaid contributions. Penalty notices We can issue penalty notices to punish persistent and deliberate non-compliance. A fixed penalty notice will be issued if you don’t comply with statutory notices, or if there’s sufficient evidence of a breach of the law. This is fixed at £400 and payable within a specific period. We can also issue an escalating penalty notice for failure to comply with a statutory notice. This penalty has a prescribed daily rate of £50 to £10,000 depending on the number of staff you have. We can issue a civil penalty for cases where you fail to pay contributions due. This is a financial penalty of up to £5,000 for individuals and up to £50,000 for organisations. Where employers fail to comply with a compliance notice or there is evidence of a breach, we can issue a prohibited recruitment conduct penalty notice. This penalty has a prescribed rate of £1,000 to £5,000 depending on the number of staff the employer has. We aim to fully recover all the penalties that we issue. What to do if you've received a penalty notice If you have received a penalty notice, you can pay your penalty using our secure online payment service. Please have your penalty notice reference handy (shown on the front of your notice). Penalties are in respect of the failure to comply with a compliance notice or unpaid contributions notice. Please ensure your payment is received by the date shown on the front of your penalty notice. Failure to pay the penalty will result in The Pensions Regulator bringing formal legal proceedings to recover the penalty. Failure to fulfil your employer duties may result in criminal prosecution. 
file_938.txt|Overhead line electrification equipment. Open access Open access passenger train operators are those who operate services purely on a commercial basis, i.e. not under either a franchise or a concession agreement. These are companies who identify an opportunity to run a service which is not currently being provided, and they apply to the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) for the necessary track access rights and to Network Rail for train paths in the timetable. Open access passenger operators include Hull Trains and Grand Central. OPEX Operating expense: as distinct from CAPEX (capital expenditure), OPEX refers to ongoing costs incurred by Network Rail to maintain the railway infrastructure. Examples of OPEX include routine safety checks on the railway tracks or repairing signalling when it fails. ORBIS Offering Rail Better Information Services: an eight year programme by Network Rail with the aim to improve the information they hold about infrastructure, supporting Network Rail's delivery of best practice asset management, consistent with its network licence obligations. Overbridge A bridge crossing over the railway (Network Rail property). This includes bridges for roads, footpaths, services or industrial use. P Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety. PCAW Public Concern at Work. PDAC Performance Data Accuracy Code : Establishes the standard of recording of the times at which trains arrive at, depart from or pass specified points, and the difference between those times and the corresponding times published in the Working Timetable. Percentage point The unit for the arithmetic difference of two percentages. Performance order Directs a party in breach of contract to do, or refrain from doing, anything that the arbitral tribunal making the order considers just and reasonable in the circumstances. Performance planning process Network Rail decides what resources (operational, maintenance, renewals) it needs to put in place in order to deliver the required performance target set by the Government. Performance strategy A strategy agreed between a passenger operator and Network Rail creating a two-way obligation on both parties to improve performance. Period 4 22 June 2014 to 19 July 2014. Period 6 17 August 2014 to 13 September 2014. Period 7 14 September 2014 to 11 October 2014. Period 10 8 December 2013 to 4 January 2014. Periodic review See PR08 and PR13 definitions. Permitted business Permitted business means the Network Business and the Permitted Non-Network Business of Network Rail. PIM The Train Accident Precursor Indicator Model (the PIM) managed by the Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB), measures the risk, per million train miles, of a train accident - i.e. collision, derailment, fire or striking a road vehicle on a level crossing. The measure incorporates 82 precursor events in eight groups. Around 65% of the risk arises from events largely under the control or the responsibility of Network Rail, e.g. track geometry, infrastructure failures, environmental factors (flooding, land slips etc.) and level crossing misuse. The PIM risk indicator was set to a reference value of 100 at the end of March 2002 and the PIM risk indicator provides a measure of the change in risk relative to this level. A reduction in the index is therefore beneficial, denoting a reduction in risk. Plain line Track that does not have any junctions, crossovers or points on it. Points failure A fault within a set of points (switches and crossings). Possession disruption index (PDI) 'Possession disruption index – passenger' (PDI-P) and 'Possession disruption index – freight (PDI-F)': a graph indicating the level of disruption caused by possessions over a period of time. Network Rail needs to restrict access to the network to carry out many of its maintenance and renewals activities. These restrictions of access are referred to as possessions. Possessions are considered to be 'disruptive' if they impact on the running of passenger or freight operators' normal timetabled services. Possessions Network Rail needs to restrict access to its network to carry out many of its maintenance and renewals activities. These restrictions of access are referred to as possessions. Possessions returns The time by which Network Rail has completed its maintenance and renewals activities and train operators can resume their use of the network to operate their services. PR08 The periodic review 2008 or PR08 was our assessment of the outputs that Network Rail (who manages the rail infrastructure in Great Britain) must deliver, and the levels of access charges paid by train operators for use of the infrastructure. It covers the five years running from April 2009 to March 2014, also known as control period 4 or CP4. PR13 The Periodic review 2013 or PR13 is our assessment of what Network Rail (who manages the rail infrastructure in Great Britain) must achieve for the next five year period, the money it needs to do so, and the incentives needed to encourage delivery and outperformance for the period from April 2014 to March 2019. This is also known as control period 5 or CP5. PSRs Permanent speed restrictions. PTEs Passenger Transport Executives: bodies covering five of the six metropolitan counties in England charged with helping to integrate the use of public transport services, by ensuring that they meet the public's needs and contribute to the wider social, economic and environmental wellbeing of local communities. Public performance measure (PPM) The Public Performance Measure (PPM) is the percentage of trains arriving at their final destination within 5 minutes of their scheduled arrival time (within 10 minutes for long distance services). PUWER Provision and Use of Work Equipment Regulations 1992. Q Quantum firm right A firm right for a TOC to operate a number of slots in the timetable over a given period. R RAB Regulatory asset base: The Office of Rail Regulation's calculation of the value of Network Rail's assets. RAIB Rail Accident Investigation Branch Rail Delivery Group The Rail Delivery Group brings together the owners of Britain's Train Operating Companies, Freight Operating Companies and Network Rail to provide leadership to Britain's rail industry. Rail Operating Centres Centres which will eventually operate the entire rail network across Britain, replacing more than 800 signal boxes and other operational locations currently used to control trains. Railway facility Section 83(1) of the Railways Act 1993 defines "railway facility" as follows: "any track, station or light maintenance depot". Railway Group Standards Railway Group Standards (RGS) are produced in accordance with the railway group standards code. The purpose of RGS is to facilitate the management and operation of the shared system that is the mainline railway. Railway services "Railway services" are defined in section 82(1) of the Railways Act 1993 as "services of any of the following descriptions: services for the carriage of passengers by railway; services for the carriage of goods by railway; light maintenance services; network services." Railway undertaking In the context of licensing, any private or public undertaking the principal business of which is to provide rail transport services for goods and/or passengers, with a requirement that the undertaking must ensure traction. RCF Fatigue cracking on a rail caused by rolling contact stresses from passing wheel-sets. There are several types of RCF, the most notable being Gauge corner cracking. Reactionary Delays caused to other train services following an incident they were not directly involved in. Recovery plan Quantified and robust plan produced by Network Rail to work constructively with the relevant operators (sometimes represented by a recovery board) to reduce delays to freight services or long distance passenger services. Regulatory allowance The expenditure allowed by ORR in calculating the revenue requirement in the access charges review 2003. Regulatory target A regulatory target is a target set for Network Rail by ORR at the conclusion of a periodic review. It defines a level of performance, attainment, or progress that Network Rail is funded to achieve at a point in time. ORR sets Network Rail a range of regulatory targets for each year of a control period, including train service performance, PPM and CaSL. ORR may enforce delivery of regulatory targets through Network Rail's network licence. Renewal Major capital works or replacement of the network in order to maintain its required capability. These may be required at specific times but are more often carried out according to Network Rail's own timetable. RIA 
file_929.txt|In this lecture, Richard Price - Chief Executive points to the successes of Britain’s railways over the last decade, but argues that the rail industry needs now to change to sustain the remarkable progress of the last decade 1 Nov 2012 Presentation slides from the conference 11 Oct 2012 Speech given by Richard Price, Chief Executive, to the International Railway Safety Conference. 8 Oct 2012 Speech given by Anna Walker, Chair, to the National Rail Conference: Cracking the Capacity Problem 5 Jul 2012 
file_865.txt|Consultations Consultations Consultations are an important part in how we carry out our regulatory duties. We review all feedback so that we can make informed decisions for the benefit of the industry, passengers and taxpayers. You can access all our policy, licence and access consultations. Consultations for land disposal are carried out by Network Rail prior to application for permission from us. Consultations run before 2010 can be found in the National Archives website. 
file_869.txt|End of consultation: 28 Nov 2014 Consultation on extending the general approval to include the novation of connection contracts based on ORR's template. End of consultation: 21 Nov 2014 Consultation on the development of a code of practice on the provision of railway ticket information. Retail market review - consultation on the potential impacts of regulation and industry arrangements and practices for ticket selling End of consultation: 31 Oct 2014 How regulation and industry practices and arrangements for ticket selling are facilitating choice and promoting investment and innovation in the best interests of passengers. Developing minimum core data for monitoring operators’ CHPs and DPPP performance End of consultation: 29 Aug 2014 This consultation invited interested parties to comment on our proposals to establish a core data set for complaint handling procedures (CHPs) and disabled people's protection policies (DPPPs). End of consultation: 2 Sep 2014 Consultation on our review of railway safety regulations. Consultation on implementation of CP5 capacity charge for new open access operators End of consultation: 1 Jul 2014 Consultation about our proposed approach to implement our decision on the capacity charge rates payable by new entrant open access operators (OAOs) during CP5. Modification to the National Station Access Conditions 2013 (England & Wales) and National Station Access Conditions 2013 (Scotland) End of consultation: 4 Jul 2014 This is a formal consultation under Condition B6 of the National Station Access Conditions 2013 ("NSACs") to modify those Access Conditions. The consultation seeks your views on a proposed modification to the NSACs 2013 (England & Wales) and NSACs 2013 (Scotland) to rectify a cross-referencing error that resulted from the PR13 review notice for stations. End of consultation: 4 Apr 2014 Consultation for ORR’s periodic review of HS1 2014 (PR14) draft determination. Retail market review for selling tickets End of consultation: 21 Mar 2014 The purpose of the review is to consider how current regulation and industry arrangements and practices within the retail market are facilitating choice and, in particular, promoting investment and innovation in the best interest of passengers. End of consultation: 31 Jan 2014 This consultation invites views on how our model connection contract and corresponding general approval should be updated. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_182.txt|Home Search & Help A - Z index A - Z index The section presents an alphabetical listing of all pages of the website. Choose a letter from the links below to view all pages with titles that start with that letter. Alternatively view the sitemap , which lists all pages by their topic and placement in the navigation. 
file_48.txt|Help your clients set up business software systems Many of the functions necessary to comply with automatic enrolment duties are process-driven. Your clients will need to know which of their staff they have to automatically enrol and which will have a right to request to join, and software will help your clients to know this. Business software Business software, eg payroll, HR and pensions administration could be set up to automate the majority of these processes, such as monitoring your client's staff ages, earnings and deducting pension contributions. If you are an accountant or bookkeeper who manages payroll for your clients, check with the provider when the system will be ready to handle the requirements of automatic enrolment. If it won't be ready, or the functionality isn't going to be made available in time, you may wish to consider an additional software package that will perform the required tasks and integrate it into their payroll software. Will your clients be using software to automate the majority of the processes? If yes – it is crucial that they hold accurate information about their staff, eg their personal and address information and the contributions that have been made on their behalf. Software developer guidance Your clients are likely to need software to help them correctly identify their duties they have for each of their staff. Whilst this isn't a resource for advisers or administrators, if you're talking to your clients about business software providers having the functionality in place to support automatic enrolment, you could direct your clients or the software developers to our guide for software developers . This detailed guide shows how to update products to automate some or all of the processes necessary to manage automatic enrolment. Subscribe to news-by-email Subscribe to our news-by-email service – it's a free and easy way to keep up to date with all our developments. You can choose to receive updates on everything or only updates on automatic enrolment. Share this page using: 
file_794.txt|Depot access applications and decisions Depot access applications and decisions This section contains details of applications on which we are currently consulting and decisions from the relevant consultation exercise. All approved agreements and subsequently approved amendments are held on our public register . Current applications 
file_650.txt|Accountability of Network Rail Accountability of Network Rail We will hold Network rail to account for management of the network by enforcing compliance with its licences. This requires Network Rail amongst other things to satisfy the reasonable requirements of its customers and funders to the greatest extent reasonably practicable. These requirements include the outputs of specified is a periodic review (disaggregated for Scotland), firm commitments made in Network Rail's delivery plan and effective communication with customers and funders about delivery of those commitments. Network Rail is also directly accountable to the customers through the contractual framework. Where contracts are in place we expect contractual remedies to be explored where possible within a reasonable time frame before seeking remedy through the licence. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_881.txt|Amendments to contracts (Section 22 and 22a) Amendments to contracts (Section 22 and 22a) Closed – undertaken by Network RailDraft agreement Application formThis section contains all current applications we are considering for agreed amendments to contracts (section 22 of the Act) and disputed amendments to contracts (section 22A of the Act). When we have made our decision, the information held in the current application section is moved into the relevant decisions section . In line with the Industry code of practice (see Annex A of our criteria and procedures document ), Network Rail is responsible for consulting on most proposed new contracts and amendments. Accordingly, please check Network Rail's consultation web pages as well as our own when looking for details of current consultations. TOC / FOC 
file_757.txt|Access exemptions Access exemptions Under certain conditions, a facility owner of a railway asset, such as a station, can apply to be exempt from certain access provisions. Types of exemptions Exemptions generally fall into three categories: stations depots network exemptions Network exemptions apply to a specific defined network. Station and light maintenance depot exemptions generally relate to a named station or light maintenance depot. In relation to a facility owner's network, we will usually expect access to be available to all train operators providing passenger or freight, or other, services. How to apply Sections 17 and 22A provide for a party denied access to a facility owner's network to make an application to us to direct the facility owner to grant access. However, we understand that there may be occasions when a facility owner may wish to apply for a facility access exemption. In such cases, we will expect the application to be supported by a written explanation specifying: the reason why the application for a facility access exemption should be granted; why the protections afforded to the facility owner by section 4 of the Act, are not sufficient; and applicants should also include information to show the extent to which the relevant facility is connected to Network Rail's network and how much, if any, traffic is expected to pass between the two. Deciding on exemptions There are no statutory timescales within which we must make a decision on an access exemption. In practice, such decisions often take several months to reach. A person intending to seek a facility access exemption from us is therefore advised to contact us as soon as possible. A facility exemption does not provide an exemption from the licensing regime . Applicants seeking licence exemptions should also view the licensing section of this website. All exemptions granted under section 20 are entered in our public register . In addition, our reasons to grant, decline or revoke a facility exemption and the relevant documents will be made available. For previous access application decisions, please see our decisions library or, for decisions in the last six months, the relevant decisions page. If you have any questions, please contact us . Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_638.txt|Route crime Route crime What ORR does to combat route crime on the railway. We have a role in ensuring that Network Rail and rail operators do all that is reasonably practicable to manage the risk of route crime. Route crime Route crime is the cause of most deaths to members of the public on Britain's railways. Many of these deaths are suicides, but a significant number are accidental deaths due to trespass. In comparison, vandalism makes a much smaller contribution to overall route crime risk. However, acts of vandalism (such as placing obstructions on the track) are of concern because they can lead to damage, injury, or catastrophic derailment with the potential for multiple passenger fatalities. Assaults on rail staff are generally considered separately from route crime. What are we doing to combat route crime? We have a role in ensuring that Network Rail and rail operators do all that is reasonably practicable to: prevent unauthorised access to the network; make sure the track is kept clear of lineside materials (which can be used in acts of vandalism); and ensure risks to the travelling public are reduced. British Transport Police (BTP) lead on matters of criminal damage and the application of railway by-laws on trespass. The civil police may be involved in issues involving vandalism from beyond the railway boundary. We work closely with rail industry partners to ensure a targeted and coordinated approach to further reductions in route crime. What else are we doing? As the safety and economic regulator of Britain's railways, we maintain a clear focus on ensuring that all rail industry parties comply with their legal obligations under section 3 of the Health and Safety at Work Act to reduce risks to the general public, so far as is reasonably practicable. This obligation extends to the prevention of trespass and vandalism on the railway. We work closely with rail industry partners to ensure a targeted and coordinated approach to further reductions in route crime, with a particular focus on risks to children and derailment risks caused by obstruction of the line by vandals. Do duty holders have any responsibility? As well as the law on vandalism enforced by BTP and the civil police, rail operators have legal duties under health and safety law, which we enforce. Railway infrastructure controllers (Network Rail on Britain's mainline rail network but also London Underground) have a general duty Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 to reduce risks 'so far as is reasonably practicable'. As part of this duty, they are required to take all reasonably practicable steps to prevent unauthorised access to the infrastructure and to ensure that public safety is not endangered through the presence of uncontrolled railway material left near the track where vandals might use it. Vandalism Vandalism can range from damaging railway equipment, to throwing missiles at train cab windows, to obstructing the track. Vandalism is a major cause of train delays and cancellations and accounts for a large proportion of all reportable railway incidents. These incidents are of serious concern because they can lead to damage, injury and/or derailment. The figures for the last five years are below. Collisions 
file_486.txt|Expert advisors Expert advisors A summary of the different expert advisory groups we work with as part of our role as the safety and economic regulator of Britain's railways. Consumer expert panel Our consumer expert panel provides independent advice to help us fulfil our role as the railways' safety, economic consumer and competition regulator. Read more about our Consumer expert panel Expert advisory panel Our Expert Advisory Panel provides external expertise in order to help us develop and test our thinking on issues of economic regulatory policy and practice. 
file_554.txt|Railway Safety Regulations 1997 Explains the application of the Railway Safety (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1997. The Railway Safety (Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1997 replaced a large number of old provisions, dating back as far as 1839. They created   five new goal-setting duties to: prevent unauthorised access to the railway infrastructure (for example by means of lineside fencing); provide means of passenger communication with staff on trains; prevent collisions and derailments (for example by means of adequate signalling systems); provide adequate braking systems; and prevent accidents to staff (for example trackside workers) from moving vehicles. Review of the Regulations We reviewed the Misc Prov 97 regulations in 2008. The key findings of the review were that majority of the organisations did not have to take new measures to comply with the duties in the regulations, as these regulations combined existing legislation. However consultees were split as to whether the regulations should be removed. Without a clear case to support any immediate changes outcomes were focussed upon having identified areas for future improvement. In 2012 we started a review of the regulations under the Red Tape Challenge. We are reviewing these regulations along with the Railway Safety Regulations 1999 and the Railway Safety (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2001. Our work on this is underway and consultation on proposals for revision is planned for Winter 2014. The RTC is a cross-Whitehall programme, and is led by a small central team across Cabinet Office and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills to review all regulations in force across a range of industry sectors. The starting point of the RTC is that 'a regulation should go or its aim be achieved in a different, non-government way, unless there is a clear and good justification for government being involved. And even where there is a good case for this, we must sweep away unnecessary bureaucracy and complexity, end gold-plating of EU directives, and challenge overzealous administration and enforcement.' Review of regulations concerning the rail industry was carried out in 2011 and a public consultation on initial findings was completed in November 2011. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_396.txt|New to health and safety? COSHH and beauticians - key messages Some ingredients in beauty and cleaning products can irritate the skin leading to dermatitis (eg solvents in nail varnish removers). Some ingredients can cause skin allergies and asthma (eg liquids and powders in acrylic systems for artificial nails). Dust filings from artificial nails can cause wheezing, chest tightness and asthma. Acrylic fumes can cause headaches, dizziness and nausea. Contact with blood and tissue residues from piercing or tattooing can cause infection. There are simple things you can do to prevent ill health. Preventing exposure to harmful substances usually means a combination of some of the following controls: Keep the workplace well ventilated. Use good work techniques that avoid or minimise contact with harmful substances and minimise leaks and spills. Practice good hand care â€“ remove contamination promptly, wash hands properly, dry thoroughly and moisturise regularly. Provide an extractor hood or down draught table for nail work. For some tasks, you may also need to provide personal protective equipment like protective gloves, aprons and eye  protection. The controls you need will depend on the task or treatment. Click the links below for more specific information. 
file_907.txt|Health and safety statistics 2002-2008 Health and safety statistics 2002-2008 Annual health and safety reports/statistics prior to 2008. HMRI moved from HSE to ORR in April 2006. Reports prior to 2005 are therefore HSE branded. 
file_945.txt|Office for Nuclear Regulation - Health and safety in the nuclear industry Latest news Get the latest news & information in a free regular email bulletin. E-mail address: The Office for Nuclear Regulation's mission is to provide efficient and effective regulation of the nuclear industry, holding it to account on behalf of the public. Nuclear sites 
file_753.txt|Access for freight customers Access for freight customers This page contains guidance for track access by freight customers. General approvals, model contracts and related documents are also included. We have developed simple and transparent model track access contracts for freight customers. The model contracts provide freight customers with control over the exercise of their own access rights associated with the movement of their goods. Potential new entrants to the market should familiarise themselves with our Starting Mainline Rail Operations pdf icon PDF, 455 Kb document. We advise all applicants to use our model contracts, provided below. For international passenger operators wishing to apply for access to operate cross-border services, we have produced guidance on the assessment of new international passenger services pdf icon PDF, 345 Kb . If you have any questions, please contact us . Model contracts Applicants are advised to begin with the freight customer model contract. Further guidance on this can be found in our C&Ps document above. The Freight Access (Track Access Contracts) General Approval 2012 pdf icon PDF, 353 Kb enables: Enables Network Rail and freight customers to enter into a freight customer track access contract which may contain certain firm access rights for a limited 2 year period; Network Rail and a freight operator (nominated by a freight customer) to enter into a freight customer specific track access contract for freight operators; and Enables freight operator and Network Rail to make certain changes to the freight operator's existing track access contract relating to liability necessary where the freight operator has entered into a freight customer-specific track access contract for freight operators. The changes permitted under  the General Approval are shown in the Model Track Access Contract (Freight Services) - Freight Customer Mark Up pdf icon PDF, 1,840 Kb . For previous policy decisions and workstreams, please see the policy and document archive . For previous access application decisions, please see our decisions library or, for decisions in the last six months, the relevant decisions page. Last updated - 13 October 2014 
file_482.txt|Rail Accident Investigation Branch Rail Accident Investigation Branch The Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) carries out the investigation into rail accidents and incidents without apportioning blame or liability with a view to enabling lessons to be learned, improving safety on railways and preventing similar accidents and incidents. RAIB is concerned with the investigation of accidents and incidents on: national railway networks in Great Britain and Northern Ireland; the Channel Tunnel rail network (in cooperation with its equivalent operation in France); London and Glasgow Underground systems and other metro systems; light rail and tramways; minor and heritage railways (including narrow-gauge systems over 350mm gauge); and cable-hauled systems of 1km or longer. Please see the RAIB website for information on how RAIB conducts investigations. RAIB make recommendations which we consider and pass on to relevant bodies who are then required to take them into consideration and act upon them appropriately. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_44.txt|Closing a scheme Help your clients prepare for automatic enrolment Whether you're a payroll professional, bookkeeper, independent financial adviser or accountant, a change in the law means that your clients may ask you about workplace pensions. Make sure you're prepared. Not sure where to start? What is automatic enrolment and what will my clients need to do? Our research tells us that at least 78% of small businesses will be relying on their business adviser for help. We send all employers an essential guide to help them get started. This guide will help you understand the basics before they come to you. View the essential guide to automatic enrolment . How do I help my clients prepare? The first thing you'll need to know to help your clients prepare is their staging date. When you know this you can help your clients understand what they need to do and by when. Help your clients comply with their duties You can help your clients comply with their duties by understanding the changes to workplace pensions law. 
file_424.txt|
file_4.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Employers Employers have new legal duties to automatically enrol certain members of staff into a pension scheme and make contributions towards it. Guidance and tools to help you choose and run a good quality pension scheme. 
file_971.txt|Copyright Copyright relating to online resources The information on this website is owned by the Office for Nuclear Regulation and is subject to copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. You may use and reuse the material featured on this website free of charge in any format or medium, under the terms of the Open Government Licence . The preferred acknowledgement is Contains public sector information published by the Office for Nuclear Regulation and licensed under the Open Government Licence v2.0. ONR logos cannot be reproduced without the prior written permission of the Office for Nuclear Regulation. Some images, illustrations and multimedia material on this website may not be owned by ONR and cannot be reproduced without permission from the copyright owner. Enquiries should be sent to ONR@onr.gsi.gov.uk Copyright relating to print and multimedia products The information in physical products published by ONR is owned by the organisation and subject to copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. ONR's copyright statement for publications is: © Office for Nuclear Regulation, [Year] The text of this document may be reproduced free of charge in any format or medium, providing that it is reproduced accurately and not in a misleading context under the terms of the Open Government Licence v2.0. ONR logos cannot be reproduced without the prior written permission of the Office for Nuclear Regulation. Some images and illustrations may not be owned by ONR and cannot be reproduced without permission of the copyright owner. Any enquiries regarding this publication should be addressed to: ONR communications team 
file_703.txt|A list of our land disposal casework and decisions in 2012. Commencement of three month notice period Network Rail-owned property 
file_189.txt|17 Dec 2014 ~ Press Release: Faulty insulin pens recall People with diabetes who use insulin pens manufactured by Owen Mumford are today being warned by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to check if they have an affected lot. If they have a pen from the list of affected lots, then they should stop using them and receive a replacement at the earliest opportunity. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Photo and image library 
file_55.txt|Key points Advise trustees to review the schedule of contributions regularly and revise it when necessary. Advise trustees to check together with their administrators that contributions are paid into defined benefit (DB) schemes according to the schedule of contributions. Make sure that trustees contact employers promptly to alert them about a payment failure and to try and resolve it. Advise trustees to report material late payments to us and/or consider whether to make a report yourself. Advise employers on paying the correct contributions and when to pass information to trustees. Schedule of contributions Trustees must produce a schedule showing the rates of contributions payable to the scheme by or on behalf of the employer and scheme members who are accruing benefits, and the dates by which those contributions are payable. You should advise trustees to review the schedule regularly and revise it when necessary. The scheme actuary must certify the schedule. When you advise on the content of a schedule of contributions, you should advise the trustees to ensure that it: is clear enough to enable trustees to monitor payments is drafted to avoid, as far as possible, the need to refer to other scheme documents doesn’t show any due date for member contributions later than the 22nd day of the month following deduction from pay (or the 19th day if payments aren’t made electronically) avoids referring to the contributions covering individual augmentations or general benefit improvements, unless these were planned and due to be paid when the schedule of contributions was certified. Schedules may contain contributions to repair a funding deficit as an additional percentage of pensionable pay. Back to top Monitoring contributions You should advise trustees to check that contributions are paid into the scheme according to the schedule of contributions and to have procedures for checking contributions are paid, including reconciling them with the schedule of contributions. Good record-keeping and adequate internal controls ensure that the scheme and the schedule of contributions are administered, maintained and managed according to the scheme rules and legal requirements. You should advise trustees to record and keep information on transactions. Back to top Resolving late payments Where a payment failure occurs, you or the trustees should have an agreed process for liaising with the employer promptly to alert them about the failure and to try and resolve it. You may need to assist the trustees to find out and record the causes and circumstances of the payment failure. You should help trustees to ensure there’s a process for obtaining overdue payments and correcting administrative errors. You or the trustees need to report a material late payment to us, usually within 10 working days of having reasonable cause to believe that it exists. You should advise the trustees to report to us using our online service Exchange . Where there is a current or imminent danger to the payments if immediate preventative action isn’t taken, you should advise the trustees to report the failure to us by telephone as soon as you become aware of it. The trustees must report the material late payment to members within 30 days of it being reported to us. Circumstances which are likely to be material and which should be reported to us include where: there’s reasonable cause to believe that the employer isn’t willing or able to pay the outstanding contributions the reminder and recovery process has been completed without obtaining the outstanding payment there is possible dishonesty or misuse of assets or contributions the trustees become aware that the employer doesn’t have adequate procedures or systems in place to ensure the correct and timely payment of contributions, and the employer doesn’t appear to be taking adequate steps to remedy the situation there is an immediate risk to members’ benefits contributions have been outstanding for 90 days from the due date, unless it’s an infrequent administrative error that’s already corrected or will be as soon as reasonably practicable. Back to top Advising on employer matters An employer must contribute in line with the schedule of contributions for their scheme. If you advise an employer you are likely to need to make sure they are aware of this responsibility and the need to have systems in place to ensure contributions are paid appropriately. You should also ensure that the employer understands when they need to pass information to the trustees so that they are aware of changes affecting the contributions due to be paid. 
file_854.txt|Network Rail Infrastructure Limited P/IAS/20130426/01 Following an incident on 21 April 2013 when a road-rail vehicle (RRV) was involved in a 'runaway' while being on-tracked near Queen Street tunnel, Glasgow it ran down a gradient , struck a scaffold injuring a workman, before coming to rest in Queen Street Station. On 26 April, ORR (and RAIB) examined the machine involved, and another, subsequently finding that the model of RRV was not fitted with the effective engineering means to prevent an unbraked state occurring during on and off tracking. As there are a number of locations on the GB rail network where there is a sufficient gradient that RRV's could move uncontrolled or runaway, the Notice was served prohibiting the on and off tracking of these machines on such gradients, until suitable engineering controls were provided. 26 Apr 2013 
file_243.txt|Adobe text conversion tools This section includes details of upcoming MHRA conferences and events. We are happy to assist you with any of your questions and comments about MHRA held events. Please feel free to contact us with any questions or concerns. Conference enquiries If you have a question or a suggestion for the team you can contact us at: Telephone: +44 020 3080 6000 Email: conferences@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Forthcoming events 
file_563.txt|The regulator's view: occupational health An overview of dutyholders' effectiveness at managing occupational health risks. Overview: several operators have seen the benefits of robust occupational health strategies: better staff attendance, improved health and reduced employee absence costs. We continue to monitor progress against operators' health strategies. There is evidence that significant benefits have been achieved from a more proactive approach, which has enabled operators to identify gaps in their health monitoring and to improve their staff's sickness absence and overall wellbeing-levels. Evidence Legionella and bacteria: we published a case study with a train operator highlighting good practice in the management of water systems at carriage cleaning wash facilities. Rolling stock without toilet effluent retention tanks remains a threat to the health of track workers and presents an unattractive environment for passengers. Whilst with proper precautions the risk to health is relatively low, discharged effluent makes track inspection and maintenance more time consuming and costly. Innovative engineering solutions are being sought to reduce the risk, including the introduction of global positioning system-controlled signal systems to prevent discharge at prescribed locations. This is a partial solution, but evidence suggests that it is better than improving on the procedural controls currently used on older rolling stock. Manual-handling: we continue to check train operator's on-board manual-handling activities and some operators' assessments of such processes were not good enough. We found examples of staff carrying out activities which they were not required to do by their company. There is also a balance to be struck between staff being keen to assist passengers and ensuring trains run on time, while ignoring their own health and safety. We found examples of well-meaning staff pulling luggage at the same time as pushing wheelchair passengers. While this avoided passengers having to carry luggage on their lap, it could present a risk of injury to both passengers and staff. We have asked the train operator to review its arrangements. We have worked with the industry to produce a wheelchair good practice guide for staff, managers and users aimed at preventing muscular skeletal injuries to staff. This can present a particular challenge at stations where there are large platform-train stepping distances, as this can pose manual-handling risks when using platform to train ramps. We are encouraging dutyholders to assess and manage the risk of injury to their staff and ensure that they have adequate provisions in place to safely assist turn-up-and-go wheelchair users. Last updated - 29 August 2014 
file_279.txt|To make this site simpler, we sometimes place small data files on your computer. These are known as cookies. Most big websites do this too. They improve things by: remembering settings, so you don’t have to keep re-entering them whenever you visit a new page remembering information you’ve given (eg your postcode) so you don’t need to keep entering it measuring how you use the website so we can make sure it meets your needs. MHRA cookies aren’t used to identify you personally. They’re just here to make the site work better for you. Indeed, you can manage and/or delete these small files as you wish. To learn more about cookies and how to manage them, visit AboutCookies.org (external link). Or please read on to find out more about how and where we use cookies. How we use cookies The MHRA uses cookies in a few of places – we’ve listed each of them below with more details about why we use them and how long they will last. Measuring website usage (WebTrends and Google Analytics) We use WebTrends and Google Analytics to collect information about how people use this site. We do this to make sure it’s meeting its users’ needs and to understand how we could do it better. WebTrends and Google Analytics store information about what pages you visit, how long you are on the site, how you got here and what you click on. We do not collect or store your personal information (eg your name or address) so this information cannot be used to identify who you are. We do not allow WebTrends or Google to use or share our analytics data. The following cookies are set by WebTrends: Name 
file_268.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) Health and environmental safety data are required for the registration of a wide range of product types and product registration is usually sought in more than one country. In 1981, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) were finalised and led to the OECD Council Decision on the Mutual Acceptance of Data (MAD) which states that “Data generated in the testing of chemicals in an OECD member country in accordance with OECD Test Guidelines and OECD principles of Good Laboratory Practice shall be accepted in other member countries for purposes of assessment and other uses relating to the protection of man and the environment”. At a meeting in 1983, concerning the mutual recognition of compliance with GLP, the OECD recommended that implementation of GLP compliance should be verified by laboratory inspections and study audits. The European Commission (EC) later ratified the OECD principles and a number of Directives stipulate that tests must be carried out to the principles of GLP and also that EC Member States must incorporate into their laws the requirement for all non-clinical safety studies to be conducted in compliance with GLP, and that premises conducting such studies must be inspected by a national authority. Consequently, on 1 April 1997 there came into force in the UK a Statutory Instrument (SI) entitled 'The Good Laboratory Practice Regulations 1997' which superseded the existing voluntary United Kingdom Good Laboratory Practice Compliance programme. In 1998, the OECD issued the revised Principles of GLP and Compliance Monitoring. These were adopted by the EC in October 1998 and issued as Directives 1999/11/EC and 1999/12/EC which amended the existing directives which were 87/18/EEC and 88/320/EEC. Consequently, in 1999, the UK Regulations were also updated by SI 3106, as amended by SI 994, 2004, and are accompanied by a guide that interprets them and explains how compliance will be verified. Since publication of the UK regulations the original EU Directives have been replaced by the codified directives 2004/9/EC which relates to inspection of facilities and verification of GLP compliance, and 2004/10/EC which describes the principles themselves. News and hot topics 
file_679.txt|CP5 delivery plan Network Rail's CP5 enhancements delivery plan (EDP) Requests by Network Rail to amend the control period 5 (CP5) enhancements delivery plan (EDP) under the change control mechanism. EDP information Enhancements Delivery Plan (EDP) change control: June 2014 pdf icon PDF, 123 Kb ECAM - enhancements cost adjustment mechanism In October 2013 we concluded our assessment of Network Rail's funding and outputs for CP5 (from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019). Network Rail's grants from governments and fixed access charges from train operators has been set for the next five years. In calculating this we assumed a level of expenditure  on enhancements. However, many of the projects (about £7bn out of £12.4bn) were at an early stage of development, with high degrees of uncertainty and risk. This made it difficult to determine efficient levels of funding. Network Rail had also not been able to involve train operators to make sure scope was best value.  Because of this we set up the enhancements cost adjustment mechanism to pin down levels of funding when a single option had been identified for each project. We consulted on this and set out the rationale and principles in chapter nine of the final determination. As outputs and scope become more clearly defined we expected that costs could rise for some projects and fall for others and should the overall amount exceed the levels originally assumed in the final determination then governments would decide the way forwards; as it would affect how much funding Network Rail will receive in CP6 (from 1 April 2019  to 31 March 2024) from the network grant and access charges. Network Rail has published its CP5 enhancements delivery plan which sets out what it intends to deliver and by when. This includes the date when each project will have identified a single option (GRIP3).  Network Rail then submits a cost estimate to us within 1 to 2 months of this. We examine: whether the output is consistent with the HLOS (where costs are more than originally envisaged we check that the funders still support the business case); whether the selected option is justified on a whole life cost basis (this is where we seek evidence of train operator involvement, as this gives us more confidence that the solution is required operationally); how the cost estimate compares with similar completed projects and other norms (such as direct cost proportions and drawing on evidence collected in PR13); the breakdown of unit costs; justification of risk and opportunity provision and uplifts; and how various elements (such as project management costs) compare with comparators from other UK industries and internationally. In parallel to an ECAM submission Network Rail must update its enhancements delivery plan, which involves consultation with affected stakeholders to make sure that future milestones are consistent with planned timetable changes and interdependencies (such as rolling stock or franchising plans). ECAM draws on industry expertise, and seeks to reflect customer views. In the process we invite comments and challenge from train operators, to make sure that each project meets both the operational needs of the railway, and reflects the expectations of customers. Network Rail must then go on and deliver the portfolio of projects against the baseline funding envelope determined through ECAM, with the same outperformance incentives that operated in CP4. By the end of September 2014, 15 reviews had been completed with a total overall CP5 cost of £2,559m. As we complete more reviews we will update this page with the aggregate level of approved funding. As part of our commitment to transparency, we are keen to ensure there is clarity around ECAM and how it operates. We will continue to provide independent commentary on enhancement schemes, as well as Network Rail performance. However, we would not expect to publish our decisions on the level of funding for individual projects until after Network Rail has competitively procured them from its supply chain. We will therefore report our conclusions at an aggregate funding level, rather than project-by-project. But we always will be as transparent as possible, consistent with getting the best value for rail users and tax-payers. We welcome any further evidence that would improve our decisions. Please send any such evidence to contact.cct@orr.gsi.gov.uk , indicating if you wish all or part of it to remain confidential to ORR and explain why. ECAM supporting documents 
file_798.txt|Information for passengers Passenger train operators are: Required to provide appropriate, accurate and timely information to enable railway passengers and prospective passengers to plan and make their journeys with a reasonable degree of assurance, including when there is disruption. Cooperate with Network Rail and other train operators to enable Network Rail to carry out appropriate planning of train services and to establish or change appropriate timetables to enable it to satisfy its timetabling obligations. Station operators: Shall cooperate with train operators so far as is reasonably necessary to enable them to meet their obligations to provide information to passengers. Complaints procedure Passenger train and station operators must establish a complaints handling procedure approved by ORR. We have adopted the published guidance on complaint handling procedures pdf icon PDF, 70 Kb to which applicants should refer for further advice. For further information please contact CHP@orr.gov.gsi.uk Read more about our policy on complaints handling procedures (CHPs) Liaison with the PC and LTUC Passenger train and station operators must engage in reasonable liaison with the PC and LTUC , attending meetings and providing information as may be reasonably required by the PC and LTUC in the course of their duties. Rail Safety and Standards Board ( RSSB ) membership Most train operators are required to become members of the RSSB, as well as comply with the obligations and exercise the rights of such membership, from the point when the licence comes into force. Licence holders are also required to complete the formal and legal documentation associated with such membership within three months of the date the licence or SNRP comes into force. ORR can provide the relevant contacts at the RSSB responsible for membership applications. A turnover threshold applies in relation to small operators, based on the definition of turnover as set out in the RSSB constitution agreement. The RSSB's principal objective is to lead and facilitate the rail industry's work to achieve continuous improvement in the health and safety performance of the railways in Great Britain. Achievement of this objective requires the involvement of as wide a range of industry parties as possible and, in particular, all those parties which operate trains on Network Rail's network. Railway Group Standards All operators are required to abide by the Railway Group Standards that apply to their operations. Environmental matters All operators are required to produce an environmental policy within six months of their licence or SNRP coming into effect. Our environmental guidance pdf icon PDF, 39 Kb must be taken into account when preparing this policy. One policy can cover all of an operator's activities. Payment of fees This condition provides us with the option to recover costs from operators, and in certain circumstances, the costs incurred by the Competition Commission. However, at present we recover the costs of economic regulation from Network Rail. Change of control The change of control condition requires operators to notify us in writing as soon as practicable after any person obtains control of the operator, for example if the operator is taken over by another company. Read the Licence holder change of control application form doc icon DOC, 118 Kb Non-discrimination This condition says the licence holder shall not unduly discriminate between particular persons or between any classes or descriptions of person. Emergency access Station, network and light maintenance depot operators are required to grant access, so far as they are legally able, to any person where necessary or expedient to alleviate the effect of an emergency. Cooperation with Transport for London Station operators must co-operate with Transport for London in the interests of ensuring efficiency and furthering investment in services. Changes to the Schedule This provision allows station and light maintenance depot operators to vary the Schedule listing the assets they are authorised to operate. If we object, normally we would serve notice on the operator within 30 days from receiving the notice, and remove the asset from the schedule. Station asset stewardship Some franchises are awarded on the basis that a station stewardship asset condition is included in the franchised operator's station licence. ORR is responsible for monitoring and enforcing this condition. Conditions may vary between different operators to reflect the franchise commitments. It does not apply to every station licence. Further information 
file_411.txt|Feedback Harmful substances Many materials or substances used or created at work could harm your health. These substances could be dusts, gases or fumes that you breathe in, or liquids, gels or powders that come into contact with your eyes or skin. There could also be harmful micro-organisms present that can cause infection, an allergic reaction or are toxic. Harmful substances can be present in anything from paints and cleaners to flour dust, solder fume, blood or waste. Ill health caused by these substances used at work is preventable. Many substances can harm health but, used properly, they almost never do. A hairdresser was diagnosed as suffering from irritant contact dermatitis caused by wet work. His hands were painfully itchy, and they would also scab over and bleed. What the employer has done The employer has introduced a hand-care regime. This includes wearing suitable gloves when washing clients' hair and using chemicals. Employees understand about good hand care, including washing chemicals from their skin promptly, drying their hands thoroughly and moisturising them throughout the day. The staff have regular skin checks to make sure any problems are spotted and treated early on. These measures have helped to control the dermatitis and allowed the hairdresser to continue working in the job he loves. What are the hazards? Some substances can cause asthma or other diseases, including cancer. Many can damage the skin, and some can cause serious long-term damage to the lungs. The effect can be immediate, such as dizziness or stinging eyes, or can take many years to develop, such as lung disease. Many of the long-term or chronic effects cannot be cured once they develop. What do I have to do? The law requires you to adequately control exposure to materials in the workplace that cause ill health. This is the Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations (COSHH) and means: identifying which harmful substances may be present in the workplace deciding how workers might be exposed to them and be harmed looking at what measures you have in place to prevent this harm and deciding whether you are doing enough providing information, instruction and training in appropriate cases, providing health  surveillance These pages explain how to carry out a risk assessment and how to decide on control measures. 
file_961.txt|Heysham reactor returns to service 12 January, 2015 ONR has granted permission for Heysham 1 Reactor 1 to return to service following discovery of a crack in a boiler spine in the reactor.  The other three reactors at Hartlepool and Heysham 1, which were shut down as a precautionary measure, returned to service in November 2014. EDF Nuclear Generation Limited presented ONR with a safety justification for the return to service of Heysham 1 Reactor 1.  ONR has completed an independent assessment of this justification and is satisfied that EDF has demonstrated the continued safe operation for this reactor, with the affected boiler isolated from service.  The reactor returned to service on Saturday 10 January 2015. ONR will publish its Project Assessment Report outlining its decision in due course. 
file_521.txt|Minimum level of competition Minimum level of competition To ensure that we get value for money we need to have our requirements open to the appropriate level of competition. The level of competition depends on the value of spend, which as a minimum must be Value of expenditure Minimum a single verbal quote (e-mail, catalogue price, record of 'phone conversation etc) £501 - £5,000 Minimum 3 verbal quotes (e-mail, catalogue price, record of 'phone conversation etc) £5,001 - £10,000 Minimum 3 written quotes. Process managed by Procurement £10,001 - £173,350* Formal competitive tender undertaken by Procurement – normally 5 written quotes £173,350*+ Formal EU tender procedure * The threshold for EU Tender procedures is £173,350, but it is our policy that where the estimated value of a tender falls within 10% of the EU threshold then the relevant EU procedure should be followed. This is to make sure that we do not find ourselves in a position where we have not followed the relevant EU procedure and the majority of bids have been priced above the threshold. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_380.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_809.txt|Current licences This section contains electronic versions of licences which are in force, listed by company. Consolidated versions of licences on this page are a guideline for reference only. They may not necessarily be the most up to date versions. If you want to identify definitive versions you should refer to our public register (that also provides details about any decisions or licences). If you are looking for recent licence applications or decisions, you may also wish to see current licensing applications which shows the applications out to statutory consultation. All licences The licences available in full on these web pages are those that are currently valid. For modification paragraphs please refer to the schedules to the Notice in related documents. 
file_520.txt|Supplying ORR Supplying ORR The ORR procurement team makes sure we get value for money when buying the goods and services we need to carry out our role as the safety and economic regulator of the rail industry. We have obligations to be economic and efficient in our operations, and as such we need to ensure that when buying goods and services and entering into contracts we obtain value for money. We also need to ensure that we follow best practice, Cabinet Office ( ERG ) guidelines and EU rules with regard to competition, non-discrimination, transparency and proportionality. Find out about: 
file_284.txt|
file_882.txt|Track access decisions Track access decisions This section contains the most recent decisions we have made. For access decisions made more than 6 months ago up to 2 years ago, please see the Decisions library . All approved agreements and subsequently approved amendments to track access decisions are held on our public register . Decisions 
file_744.txt|DB Schenker DB Schenker The outcome of our investigation under the Competition Act 1998 in 2010 into the conduct of DB Schenker Rail (UK) Limited (DBS) regarding the pricing of a contract for petroleum haulage by rail in Great Britain. DB Schenker Rail (UK) Limited We found no evidence that DB Schenker Rail (UK) Limited (DBS) has infringed the prohibition imposed by section 18 of the Competition Act 1998 or Article 102 of the EC Treaty. This decision relates to DBS's pricing of a contract for petroleum haulage by rail in Great Britain. Further information 
file_526.txt|Fax: 020 7282 2043 Reporting serious railway incidents The numbers below are for the reporting of serious railway incidents by telephone . Only call these numbers if you are a dutyholder, the Police or other organisation seeking to report a major railway incident under RIDDOR . Incidents that are not serious and do not require immediate attention should be reported using: SMIS if you are a mainline railway dutyholder; or LUSEA if you are London Underground. Monday to Friday, from 09:00 to 17:30 hrs - Telephone: 020 7282 3910 Outside these hours, weekends and public holidays please call the Department for Transport (DfT) Duty Officer on: 020 7944 5445. For enquiries on using the online reporting form, please email: riddor.reporting@orr.gsi.gov.uk. This email should not be used to report any incident. If you have a general query please see 'Complaints and general queries' above. Read more about how to report incidents . Media relations The media relations team is available to help journalists writing for the national, regional, trade and specialist media, and as the first point of contact for all breaking news and major developments, including interview requests, statistics and diary information. Monday-Friday 9am to 5:30pm: 020 7282 2094 Emergency media calls (out-of-hours): 020 7282 3882. Media relations team: 
file_438.txt|
file_787.txt|Station access Station access We regulate access to stations by approving station access agreements in accordance with the provisions set out under the Railways Act 1993 . Network Rail owns the freehold to the vast majority of the approximately 2,500 railway stations in Great Britain. Most stations are leased to and operated by one or other of the franchised passenger train operating companies. Network Rail operates the major stations, comprising: London Cannon Street; 
file_51.txt|This page applies to you if you’re appointed by trustees of a defined benefit pension scheme to help them to understand the impact of corporate changes and transactions on their scheme. Share this page using: 
file_19.txt|Closing a scheme Setting up a pension scheme If you don’t have a pension scheme, or don’t want to use an existing scheme, you’ll need to find a provider that can offer an automatic enrolment scheme. Make sure the scheme meets legal requirements and is good quality. When you’ve chosen a provider, you’ll need to work with them to get your scheme up and running. 
file_645.txt|Enabling Our vision is of a rail industry that consistently achieves best practice in occupational health. Over the next five years we want to see railway companies improve the health of their workers by striving for: Excellence in health risk management; Greater engagement with employees and others; Better efficiency and reduced costs from people suffering work-related ill-health; and Enabling improvements in competency, information, co-ordination and control. 
file_743.txt|Virgin fares Virgin fares The outcome of our investigation under the Competition Act 1998 in 2001 regarding a number of passenger complaints about the scale of increases of the unregulated fares on Virgin's West Coast Trains Ltd. We received a number of complaints from passengers and passenger representatives regarding the scale of increases of the unregulated fares on Virgin's West Coast Trains Ltd. We considered carefully whether it would be appropriate to undertake a formal investigation under the Competition Act 1998, and, in particular, what needed to be established under competition law to determine whether a particular fare charged by a franchise operator is excessive. We concluded that, in the absence either of evidence of excessive profit being generated across a franchise as a whole, or of other evidence that the level of a particular fare had no reasonable relationship to the real costs or the real value of the product offered, there were no reasonable grounds for suspecting a franchise operator of a breach of the Chapter II prohibition of the Competition Act 1998. Against these criteria, we concluded that there were no reasonable grounds for suspecting Virgin of having infringed the Competition Act 1998 and he did not proceed to open a formal investigation. Further information 
file_316.txt|Browse reports / data Passenger rail usage This section includes reports on the number of passenger kilometres, journeys and revenue by sector and ticket type. It also includes the volume of train kilometres each train operator plans to run according to the published timetable. Passenger rail usage 
file_464.txt|Sustainable development This page outlines ORR's commitments and policy for sustainable development. We have two statutory duties under the Railways Act 1993 which specifically relate to sustainable development and the environment. These are: to contribute to the achievement of sustainable development; and to have regard to the effect on the environment of activities connected with the provision of railway services. The goal of sustainable development is defined in the UK Government's 2005 strategy document 'Securing the Future – delivering UK sustainable development strategy': "to enable all people throughout the world to satisfy their basic needs and enjoy a better quality of life, without compromising future generations." We have a further duty under the Natural Environment and Rural Committees Act 2006 to have regard to the purpose of conserving biodiversity. What are our commitments? In April 2007 we published our sustainable development policy which explains how we are going to discharge these duties. In developing this policy we sought the views of the industry and other relevant stakeholders before publishing our conclusions. We will review our policy regularly to ensure that it remains fit for purpose. One of our policy conclusion commitments was to review and reissue the Environmental Policy Guidance to be used by all licence holders when producing environmental policies in accordance with their licence obligations. Following consultation with licence holders in July 2007, our revised document was issued on 13 December 2007. This document includes details of those industry proposed environmental key performance indicators (KPIs) that, for July 2008, we have published in National Rail Trends and those that we will be publishing in future. We do not have the power to enforce environmental legislation - for instance to ask a railway body to remedy instances of environmental nuisance such as noise or vibration. This is the responsibility of local authorities or affected individuals.If you have any questions in relation to sustainable development, please contact us. Further information 
file_967.txt|LC numbers: 10, 12, 23, 24, 27, 28, 34 Executive summary Purpose of intervention Inspections were undertaken in line with the 2014/15 IIS plan for the site.  This included a system inspection of the defuelling route to confirm the requirements of the safety case for the fuel handling plant and equipment was adequately incorporated into the arrangements for compliance with licence conditions.  The defuelling route was chosen for the inspection because it was an area where Oldbury had undertaken work to improve safety and waste management after the recent fuel flask contamination incident and other recent incidents. Interventions Carried Out by ONR Oldbury explained what had been done to improve matters after the recent incident whereby fragments of pond debris were found on a fuel transport flask, including what remained to be done and progress with closing all the actions and reviewing their effectiveness.  I inspected the areas of the fuel route and noted the improvements made in the pond area and flask corridor. I was told how the licence conditions considered took into account the safety case and sampled documentation which demonstrated this. Explanation of Judgement if Safety System Not Judged to be Adequate The safety system was judged adequate. Key Findings, Inspector's Opinions and Reasons for Judgements Made Oldbury had made significant improvements in waste management in the pond area, which I was able to confirm.  The documentation used to control the work in the pond and the flask corridor had been improved in clarity on what had to be done, by whom and when it was necessary to confirm the work had been done as required.  I saw evidence of a questioning attitude and the resultant improvements in the documentation.  It was evident also that workers were used to seeing and talking to senior managers visiting the areas.  I found sufficient evidence of improvements to be able to close the ONR issue I raised after the flask incident Conclusion of Intervention Oldbury demonstrated to me that the defuelling safety case was adequately reflected in meeting the licence conditions under consideration. 
file_838.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_270.txt|Adobe text conversion tools Before a medicine can be sold in the UK, a number of licences are essential. The product itself must have a licence called a 'marketing authorisation' (formerly called a ‘product licence’).  In addition, the companies that are involved in all stages of the manufacture and distribution of the product need to have licences (manufacturer's and wholesale dealer's licences).  New products which are still in development also need a licence before they can be tested on human subjects (clinical trial authorisations). Applications for manufacturer's and wholesale dealer's licences require an inspection by our Medicines Inspectorate to ensure the premises and procedures are up to the necessary quality standards. Applications for clinical trial authorisations and marketing authorisations are assessed by medical, pharmaceutical and scientific staff at the MHRA, working in multidisciplinary functional teams.  Applications for marketing authorisations come mainly from the pharmaceutical industry but anyone with the necessary supporting data may apply. The task of evaluating the beneficial effects against the possible harmful effects of any medicine is complex.  Evaluation takes into account the nature of the active ingredients, the dosage form (for example, tablet or liquid), the nature of the disease or condition to be treated, the effective dose that needs to be given, the type of patient (for example, age, sex) and the duration of treatment.  A high risk to benefit ratio may be acceptable in the treatment of terminally ill patients where the quality of life might be enhanced, whereas a very low risk to benefit ratio is expected in the treatment of patients with self-limiting diseases, for the purpose of prophylaxis (for example, vaccines) and for those requiring life-long treatment for their illnesses. In arriving at a decision whether or not to grant a licence, the assessors frequently takes independent expert advice on matters relating to safety, quality and efficacy from medicines advisory bodies. These advisory bodies were appointed under Section 4 (S4) of the Medicines Act  and include the Commission on Human Medicines. These bodies consist of independent experts who are appointed by Ministers. They do not include members of staff of the MHRA. Secretariat support to the advisory bodies is provided by the MHRA. Page last modified: 		 		14 July 2011 
file_259.txt|Contact for further information Costs The requirement to provide payment of capital fees at the time of submission is a legal requirement specified in the MHRA Fees Regulations. Payment at a different time (eg on invoice) is not acceptable. Proof of payment must be clearly stated in the covering letter and/or as a separate document (eg photocopy of cheque / confirmation of bank transfer). A purchase order, or a letter of instruction to the bank to make a payment, is not considered an acceptable proof of payment. There is no fee for applications submitted and authorised under the Notification Scheme. However, if an objection to the notification is raised and the application is not authorised under the Notification Scheme, a fee will be charged for assessment of the application and an invoice requiring payment of the fee will be sent to the applicant. Guidance on the applicable fees and how to pay is given below: Type of APPLICATION Fee payable from 1 April 2013 Applications with an IMP Dossier* £3,400 Applications without an IMP Dossier* £250 
file_198.txt|The Portal can be accessed using the following browsers: Internet Explorer version 6.0, 7.0, 8.0 and 9.0 and above Firefox version 7.0 Chrome version V14+ Information about changes for browser support As of October 1, 2008, IntraLinks will no longer support Netscape; versions of Internet Explorer earlier than 6.0; or any version of Internet Explorer for the Macintosh operating system. You can continue to use earlier versions of Internet Explorer to access IntraLinks, but you may not be able to use some IntraLinks features. You or your systems administrator can download and install a browser that is supported by IntraLinks. Internet Explorer version 6.0 or higher is available from Microsoft. Firefox version 7.0 is available from Mozilla. Safari version 5.1 is available from Apple. Google Chrome V14 is available from Google. To register for the Portal please use the Portal website link and guidance notes (441Kb). You should also be aware of the following considerations. The Portal requires you to name two administrators of the system who will be solely responsible for managing your users. It is therefore important that you select these staff carefully and put in place the necessary procedures to provide appropriate levels of security for your company. There is no charge for the two administrators and for five other Portal users. Should you require additional users you may buy additional bundles of five users at a cost of £1,000 per bundle. Please note that all costs are exclusive of VAT. Only the registered company director(s) can agree to the terms and conditions on behalf of each of the companies in the group for the Portal. These need to be signed and a hard copy returned to MHRA. Before access is permitted, both administrators must attend a half day’s training at the MHRA. Training dates 2014* 
file_608.txt|Sharing good practice Sharing good practice This page provides examples of how rail companies can learn from others, including links to good practice case studies on managing work related stress both from within and outside the rail industry. Use of the management standards approach by HSE in both the public and private sectors has shown a positive effect on worker health, as well as wider business benefits; a number of business case studies are on HSE's website . Santander's experience demonstrates how a proactive approach which recognises stress as a legitimate business risk rather than a problem for an individual, helped to protects its workforce in a sector typified by high pressure working and organisational change. In the rail sector, Transport for London and Arriva Trains Wales have produced good practice case studies on managing different aspects of stress, which are on our website. We have collaborated with RSSB to produce a video guide for managers in the rail industry on how to manage health risks, as part of RSSB's "Health and Wellbeing Assessment (HWA) Resource". Our video case study (scroll down to number 6 at the bottom of the page) looks at how to manage stress in practice, using the HSE management standards, explained by one of our senior managers. If your company is managing stress using a preventive approach such as the stress management standards or similar, and would be willing to share your experience with others, please contact us . Please also contact us if your company would like to 'buddy up' with other willing organisations (many of which will be outside the rail sector) who are already managing stress using the HSE management standards approach, so that you can learn from their experience. Last updated - 16 July 2014 
file_581.txt|Occupational health assessment ORR assessment of occupational health management in the rail industry in 2010 Information on the ORR 2010 baseline review and survey of work related ill health and its management in the railway industry. Our occupational health programme will be assessed against this survey in 2014. We also ask the industry to assess their progress and share the results with us. In support of our Health programme for 2010-14 , we have carried out a baseline review of work related ill health pdf icon PDF, 815 Kb , and its management in the rail industry. The review paper also reports against a small number of baseline indicators on health, taking account of rail industry responses to our health survey carried out in December 2010 pdf icon PDF, 52 Kb .The impact of our health programme will be assessed against this survey. Our aim in publishing this baseline paper, which is a snapshot view during the first year of our health programme, is to encourage improved leadership and awareness of health.  The paper will also act as a benchmark for the railway industry. We welcome comments from the industry and will publish these pdf icon PDF, 61 Kb alongside the baseline paper. A key element in moving the industry towards excellence in management of occupational health will be encouraging the gathering and use of good health data.  Accurate data drives effective monitoring and reporting on health. We encourage rail companies who are keen to act as examples of good practice in occupational health management to measure their progress year on year. This can be done against the baseline external indicators on incidence, cost, and public reporting on health.  We would like you to share these with us. If you are happy for us to do so, we will publish your progress against the baseline indicators on our website as further examples of good practice . We intend to review and publish progress against the three key themes in our programme – excellence in health risk management, leadership, and awareness, in 2014/15. We expect to repeat the health survey in 2014 to help with our assessment, and we have improved the survey form doc icon DOC, 84 Kb to make it clearer exactly what data we are seeking. We ask all rail duty-holders to make a full contribution to the repeat survey in 2014. This would give us a fuller picture of how well occupational health is being managed across the industry. Further information 
file_130.txt|Base: Schemes: 2,140, memberships: 233,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes schemes with 12 or more DC memberships and members aged 50 to 59 Excludes Hybrid schemes with DC memberships 52% of schemes have members aged 50 to 59. Base: Schemes: 1,770, memberships: 58,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes schemes with 12 or more DC memberships and members aged 60 or over Excludes Hybrid schemes with DC memberships 43% of schemes have members aged over 60 NOTE Back to top 2: Membership demographics Information shown in these tables is required to be provided by schemes at the point of registration and then updated annually via the scheme maintenance process. Data shown here represents data held by the regulator as at 01/09/11. Information relating to the effective date of information received is available in section 7. Base: Schemes: 4,110, memberships: 2,379,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes all schemes with 12 or more DC memberships 48% of memberships are in schemes with more than 10,000 memberships. Base: Schemes: 4,110, memberships: 2,379,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes all schemes with 12 or more DC memberships 72% of memberships are in open schemes. Base: Schemes: 4,110, memberships: 2,379,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes schemes with 12 or more DC memberships 30% of memberships are in unbundled schemes. Base: Schemes: 2,600, memberships: 1,026,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes all schemes with 12 or more DC memberships Excludes schemes with no active members Active members constitute 43% of total memberships Base: Schemes: 3,590, memberships: 1,252,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes all schemes with 12 or more DC memberships Excludes schemes with no deferred members 49% of deferred members are in schemes with 10000 or more members Base: Schemes: 2,140, memberships: 233,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes schemes with 12 or more DC memberships and members aged 50 to 59 Excludes Hybrid schemes with DC memberships Of members aged between 50 and 59 70% are in open schemes. Base: Schemes: 1,770, memberships: 58,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes schemes with 12 or more DC memberships and members aged 60 or over Excludes Hybrid schemes with DC memberships Of members aged 60 or over 68% are in open schemes. NOTE Back to top 3: Contributions Information shown in these tables is not required to be provided by schemes at the point of registration but is provided annually via the scheme maintenance process. Data shown here represents data held by the regulator as at 01/09/11. Information relating to the effective date of information received is available in section 7. These tables exclude hybrid schemes with DC memberships as contribution information is not requested from them. Base: Schemes: 1,660, Memberships: 1,131,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Excludes Hybrid schemes with DC memberships Average annual contributions are highest in schemes with 100 to 999 members. Base: Schemes: 1,660, Memberships: 1,131,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Excludes Hybrid schemes with DC memberships Total contributions calculated by extrapolating averages for each size group against total active members in each size group Employers contribute 77% of total contributions Base: Schemes: 1,660, Memberships: 1,131,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Excludes Hybrid schemes with DC memberships Annual contributions are highest in unbundled schemes Base: Schemes: 1,660, Memberships: 1,131,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Excludes Hybrid schemes with DC memberships Total contributions calculated by extrapolating averages for each size group against total active members in each size group Total contributions are highest in unbundled schemes. NOTE Back to top 4: Employers Information shown in these tables is required to be provided by schemes at the point of registration and then updated annually via the scheme maintenance process. An employer can offer more than one scheme, and as such these figures could include double counting. The effective date for information contained in these tables 01/09/11. Base: Schemes: 4,110, memberships: 2,379,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes schemes with 12 or more DC memberships Whilst an employer is attached to an open scheme, that does not mean the employer is still enrolling employees in that scheme. For hybrid schemes not all employers will be enrolling members in the DC section. 94% of employers are attached to open schemes. Base: Schemes: 4,110, memberships: 2,379,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes schemes with 12 or more DC memberships Excludes schemes which have not provided information regarding their employers 79% of employers are attached to schemes with 10,000 or more memberships Base: Schemes: 4,110, memberships: 2,379,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes schemes with 12 or more DC memberships Excludes schemes which have not provided information regarding their employers 75% of employers are in Multi employer schemes with non-associated employers NOTE Back to top 5: Micro schemes (fewer than 12 members) Information shown in these tables is required to be provided by schemes at the point of registration and then updated triennially via the scheme maintenance process. The effective date for information contained in these tables 01/09/11. Base: Schemes: 41,300, Memberships: 119,000, effective date: 01/09/11 Notes: Includes all schemes with between 2 and 11 DC memberships. ** Indicates figures are disclosive 
file_90.txt|Independent trustee register Corporate changes and transactions You should understand the impact of corporate changes and transactions on your defined benefit scheme. You should take independent, professional advice where necessary. Corporate changes and transactions include the employer selling or restructuring their business, transferring the scheme to another sponsor or leaving a multi-employer scheme. On this page Key points Work with the employer to understand the impact of any corporate changes and transactions. Ask the employer to consider whether it would be appropriate to apply for clearance from us if you believe a corporate transaction is ‘materially detrimental’ to the scheme’s ability to meet its liabilities. Analyse any proposed abandonment arrangement and reach a decision with other parties as to whether is in the members’ best interests. If the employer is leaving a multi-employer scheme, work with them to understand which of the options to manage their liability to the scheme under the legislation is most suitable. Notify us when certain events occur that could lead to a possible call on the Pension Protection Fund. Corporate transactions Corporate transactions are employer-related or scheme-related events that may affect the employer’s finances or underlying structure, such as: selling or restructuring their business making a return of capital exiting a multi-employer pension scheme. You should work with the employer to understand the impact of corporate transactions on your defined benefit (DB) pension scheme. Back to top Clearance If you believe an employer-related or scheme-related event is ‘materially detrimental’ to the scheme’s ability to meet its liabilities, you should ask the employer to consider whether they think that it would be appropriate to apply for clearance from us. For examples of material detriment, read our code-related guidance on the material detriment test . Clearance is a voluntary process. A clearance statement provides assurance that we won’t use our anti-avoidance powers in relation to the transaction. The statement isn’t our approval of the transaction. For more information on when it is likely to be appropriate for employers to consider applying for clearance, read our regulatory guidance on clearance . If your employer decides not to apply for clearance where you believe an event is ‘materially detrimental’ to the scheme’s ability to meet its liabilities, you may wish to raise this with us directly. Back to top Abandonment Abandonment of a pension scheme is where the sponsoring employer cuts its link with the scheme without providing the scheme with sufficient funds or assets to compensate for losing the employer’s ongoing support. This could happen, for instance, when the employer carries out a significant restructuring or transfers their scheme liabilities to another employer. You need to be able to recognise events that may result in abandonment as they are often not in the members’ best interests. You should analyse any proposed arrangement and reach a decision with other parties as to whether it is in the members’ best interests. You should also consider whether any alternative options might be available. You should consult with us at an early stage in the process. Back to top Leaving multi-employer schemes There are a number of different ways that employers can manage their obligations if they leave a multi-employer scheme. You should work with the employer to understand which option is most suitable and to ensure that the scheme’s liabilities will continue to be appropriately funded. Back to top Notifiable events There are a number of notifiable events designed to give us early warning of a possible call on the Pension Protection Fund. You must notify us when scheme-related events occur and employers must nominate us when employer-related events occur. For more information, go to our code of practice on notifiable events . Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit The ‘How a DB scheme works’ module contains a tutorial on corporate transactions. You must log in or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
file_867.txt|Review of the rolling stock leasing market investigation order 2009 Consultation opened: 19 Dec 2014 This consultation offers the opportunity to provide the Office of Rail Regulation with your views on the operation of the Rolling Stock Leasing Market Investigation Order 2009. Consultation opened: 8 Dec 2014 This consultation document outlines options around how our policy and relevant processes could be improved. Last updated - 8 December 2014 
file_844.txt|ORR’s report on health and safety on Britain’s railways in 2013-14: a foreword by the Office of Rail Regulation’s Chief Executive and Director of Railway Safety. 22 Jul 2014 Our work related stress position paper aims to promote and support the wider adoption of an organisational, rather than individual approach, to work related stress management across the rail industry. 20 Jun 2014 Occupational health programme 2014-19: making it happen pdf icon PDF, 1,751 Kb The health of its workforce is crucial to our industry’s success. It’s fundamental to running an efficient and responsible business. For an industry turning over £18bn annually and employing more than 150,000 people, the business case is pretty straightforward. 28 Apr 2014 Details on our quarterly updates on occupational health, including the subscription link and index of topics covered. 30 Oct 2013 Article 18 of the Railway Safety Directive requires National Safety Authorities (NSAs) to publish an annual safety report. 17 Oct 2013 ORR’s report on health and safety on Britain’s railways in 2012-13: a foreword by the Office of Rail Regulation’s chief executive and Director of Railway Safety. 16 Jul 2013 Engineering Inspection Plans have been developed primarily to achieve consistency for inspectors carrying out engineering inspections and allow for a targeted approach on these inspections. 9 May 2012 A qualitative overview of the likely scale of work related ill health in the GB rail industry and the current arrangements for its management. 14 Jun 2011 Summary of position in respect of the 29 recommendations made by RAIB in association with the derailment at Grayrigg on 23 February 2007 (as at 8 April 2011). 8 Apr 2011 By implementing this programme, we will promote and deliver our vision of a rail industry that consistently achieves best practice in occupational health. 30 Jun 2010 Railway Safety Regulations 1999 evaluation pdf icon PDF, 60 Kb An evaluation to assess the impact of the regulations against the policy objectives in terms of their effectiveness and value for money (i.e. cost to duty holders and stakeholders versus value of the benefits); and to make recommendations either to keep the regulations as they are, review and revise them, or revoke them. 30 May 2007 A report by the Health and Safety Commission’s Working Group on the obstruction of railway lines by road vehicles, following the tragic accident at Great Heck, near Selby. 28 Feb 2002 Ladbroke Grove Rail Inquiry - Joint Inquiry into Train Protection Systems pdf icon PDF, 1,815 Kb This report comes between the report into the Southall rail accident, published in February 2000, and the report into the Ladbroke Grove accident; the Public Inquiry from which this report results was not concerned with the facts of either accident, but with broader questions of safety on the railways in the light of developments before and since these tragic accidents. 31 Dec 2001 
file_903.txt|These are archived statistical releases. Passenger and freight rail performance Public performance measure (PPM), freight performance measure (FPM) and cancellations and significant lateness (CaSL). Archived statistical release: 
file_530.txt|Complaints about ORR Complaints about ORR We aim to provide an efficient and helpful service to those who contact us for information on railway issues within the targets that the office has set. However, should you feel unhappy with the standard of service you have received, you should put your complaint in writing to the senior executive in the customer correspondence team. Your complaint will be acknowledged and forwarded to the relevant ORR director to investigate your complaint. We aim to respond and investigate such complaints within 20 working days. If it becomes apparent that our investigation will take longer, we will inform you at the earliest opportunity. Should you remain dissatisfied with our response, you may contact the Parliamentary Ombudsman to re-investigate the concerns you have raised. Ultimately, it is the duty of the Parliamentary Ombudsman to ensure that public bodies comply with the terms of their complaints handling procedure, and ensure that customers receive the service to which they are entitled. 
file_133.txt|Strategy Compliance and enforcement strategy (PDF, 109kb) Published: June 2012 Provides a framework for our regulatory approach, and explains the various options available to us to maximise employer compliance. Published: June 2012 Explains our approach to minimising non-compliance with the duties and safeguards, and associated legislation. If employers fail to comply, we have various powers available to us, such as issuing a compliance or penalty notice. Employers can ask for a review of these notices. 
file_506.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_5.txt|Closing a scheme What is automatic enrolment? UK employers have to automatically enrol their staff into a workplace pension if they meet certain criteria. The law on workplace pensions has now changed and every employer must comply. 
file_131.txt|Executive summary Introduction This year's statistics release is in a different format to previous versions. In July 2011 and December 2011 the regulator released a single document (PDF format) containing the report and data tables. This year we have taken a different approach, releasing the figures in an excel format making the data more accessible for end users to use as they want. Since the beginning of the scheme specific funding regime one cycle of scheme valuations has been completed and at the time of writing more than half of PPF[1] -eligible Defined Benefit / Hybrid schemes will have completed their second-cycle valuations. This June 2012 statistical release follows the December 2010 report on the technical assumptions underpinning recovery plans and the June 2011 report on funding and other forms of scheme security. Like the last two reports, which were based on tranche 4 valuations, the current release reflects the evolution of funding positions from the first to second funding cycle and the key technical assumptions that underpin the trends. The update is based on 'tranche 5'; that is, recovery plans with effective valuation dates falling on and between 22 September 2009 and 21 September 2010. Due dates for completion of tranche 5 recovery plans fell between December 2010 and December 2011. By 31 January 2012, the regulator had received 1733 plans with tranche 5 valuation dates. The plans in this dataset comprise less than a third of schemes in the PPF-eligible universe as some schemes with tranche 5 valuation dates will be in surplus. 78% of the tranche 5 schemes in this dataset submitted recovery plans in tranche 2. Similarly, tranche 8 (cycle 3) recovery plans submitted in 2013-2014, are expected to largely comprise of tranche 5 plans. The recovery plan features and assumptions in this release are as at receipt; prior to the regulator's review process and any engagement with scheme trustees arising from reviews. This information presented may be of particular interest to trustees, scheme advisers, and others in the pension industry. A fuller commentary on the tranche 5 statistics is to follow. Scheme demographics Approximately 5 in 6 tranche 5 schemes are closed to new entrants. More than half of tranche 5 schemes have technical provisions ranging between £5m and £99m, while approximately 2 in every 3 schemes have memberships below 500 members. Scheme security and contingent assets Contingent assets continue to be a key form of scheme security. A total of 358 (21%) of tranche 5 schemes reported having some form of contingent asset. The majority of the assets (265) are recognised by the PPF in respect of the levy calculation while the remaining 93 assets are not.  The majority of schemes reporting PPF recognised contingent assets (90%) hold 'Type A' assets (guarantees provided by the parent/group companies to fund the scheme, most commonly guarantees to cover a pre-arranged percentage of liabilities). Funding The average (unweighted) funded status of tranche 5 schemes on the technical provisions, s179, and buyout bases is 78.8%, 92.9%, and 57.8% respectively. Technical provisions as a proportion of s179 liabilities was on average (unweighted) 112.5%, while the proportion of technical provisions to liabilities on a buyout basis was on average (unweighted), 73.2%. Among the 1355 schemes that submitted recovery plans in both tranches 2 and tranche 5, the average level of technical provisions has increased by 15.7%, while the average value of assets has increased by 6.8%. Triggers Triggering in tranche 5 plans compared to tranche 4 plans reflect the slightly improved, though still-depressed, economic conditions prevailing at tranche 5 valuations dates. Plans have a shorter duration on average and a lower proportion have triggered on all triggers relative to tranche 4. The average (unweighted) length of a tranche 5 recovery plan was 8.1 years; just over one year shorter than the average length of tranche 4 plans. The proportion of schemes triggering overall was 60%, compared to 81% in tranche 4. In comparison to tranche 4, a smaller proportion of tranche 5 schemes triggered on investment return assumptions (15% compared to 34% in tranche 4) and on technical provisions (38% compared to 61% in tranche 4). Discount rates The average nominal single effective discount rate (SEDR) for tranche 5 is lower relative to that of tranches 2 and 3. The fall in average discount rates reflects the decline in UK gilt yields since the first cycle of valuations. Similarly, the real single effective discount rate fell to 1.76% in tranche 5, the lowest it has been over the five tranches. The average nominal SEDR spread over UK conventional 20 year gilt yields increased from tranche 2 to tranche 5 (from 0.84% to 0.93%) although this is still lower than the 1.18% average outperformance in tranche 4.The average outperformance of the real single effective discount rate against >5 year IL gilts has increased from 0.84% in tranche 2 to 1.06% in tranche 5. This is lower than the average of 1.13% in tranche 4. Schemes with the highest D&B[2] Failure scores (deemed least likely to become insolvent in the next year) had the highest real SEDR in tranche 5 while schemes with the lowest D&B Failure scores had the second highest SEDR. Mortality Nearly two thirds (62%) of tranche 5 schemes used 'S1' base mortality tables. 36% assumed a medium cohort projection for future improvements; 28%  long cohort  and 31% CMI 2009 projections. 95% of schemes applied an underpin. By comparison, 73% of tranche 2 schemes used '92' series base tables; 69% and 13% assumed medium and long cohort projections respectively; and 23% applied an underpin. Average (unweighted) life expectancies increased marginally between tranches 4 and 5 with the average life expectancy of a male non-pensioner currently aged 45 rising from 89.1 to 89.4 years, and that of a male pensioner currently aged 65 rising from 87.1 to 87.3 years. Changes in mortality assumptions from tranche 2 to tranche 5 translate to an increase of 0.8 years to the average (unweighted) assumed life expectancy of a male pensioner currently aged 65. The corresponding increase in average age for a male non-pensioner currently aged 45 is 1.5 years. It should be noted however, that increases in life expectancies do not necessarily reflect increases in prudence since some increases in life expectancies are included in all projection models. Footnotes for this section 
file_234.txt|29 Nov 2012 ~ Canadian authorities issue a recall for Pollen Allergy now called Tongqiao Biyan Pian Health Canada have issued a recall from the Canadian market after testing found levels of arsenic that exceed limits allowed by Health Canada. We have received advice from the Ministry of Health, Jerusalem warning that this unlicensed product has been tested and found to contain Prescription Only Medicines used in the treatment of male erectile dysfunction. Show results 
file_768.txt|Alliance Rail Holdings (ECML application) Application withdrawn For older decisions, please see the National Archives . Last updated - 23 April 2014 
file_201.txt|This form should be used to request a scientific advice meeting with the MHRA. Download and complete the form in Microsoft Word and email to scientific_advice@mhra.gsi.gov.uk 
file_741.txt|Real Time Train Information Real Time Train Information On 17 November 2009 we concluded our investigation under the Competition Act 1998 into the conduct of the Association of Train Operating Companies (ATOC) and its subsidiary National Rail Enquiries (NRE) in the provision of Real Time Train Information (RTTI) through its ownership of the 'Darwin' database. We found that, on the basis of the available evidence, ATOC's conduct had not amounted to an infringement of Chapter II of the Competition Act 1998 or Article 102 of the European Treaty. Critical to this conclusion was that we found no evidence that ATOC's conduct in granting access to Darwin had prevented a new product from coming to market or hampered the emergence of new technology. Notwithstanding these findings, ATOC has total control over the supply of RTTI and as a result, to a very great extent, over what the future market will look like in terms of what products and services consumers will ultimately enjoy. This in turn means that ATOC has a special responsibility to avoid allowing its market power to distort the market it supplies so that consumers' interests are not prejudiced. In the light of this unique position we explained in our conclusions that we believed that it would be important for ATOC to publish a Code of Practice which set out the criteria against which ATOC assesses applications. The purpose of the Code would be to: introduce transparency into an area where there is significant market power in the hands of one party and, therefore, a responsibility on that party to demonstrate that it has processes in place not to abuse that position; and set out a behavioural framework against which all future conduct can be assessed. NRE's Code published on 23 April 2010 is an important first step in improving transparency around access to real time train information data, helping businesses to understand what to expect in their dealings with NRE and what NRE will expect from them. During development of the Code, a number of people expressed concerns to us about whether the Code went far enough and how it would work in practice. We invited NRE to make changes to the Code or to provide explanations as to how the Code will work in practice (see the letters below). The revised Code and the associated explanations do not necessarily yet provide all the assurances which potential users of the Code ideally would want to see. We believe, however, that the best test of the Code will be in its use. On this basis, NRE has agreed to keep the Code under review in the light of experience. We will monitor the Code and will ask for views on how it has worked in a years' time. At that time we will review the case for action under licences or the Competition Act. We will not hesitate to act where we consider a company's behaviour is harming passengers. Further information National Rail Enquiries: Real Time Systems Code of Practice 23 April 2010 National Rail Enquiries response pdf icon PDF, 276 Kb to the concerns of potential users of the Code 19 March 2010 ORR letter pdf icon PDF, 55 Kb to National Rail Enquiries summarising the concerns of potential users of the Code 3 March 2010 ORR consults pdf icon PDF, 84 Kb on draft National Rail Enquiries Code of Practice on Real Time Train Information 17 February 2010 Press notice - Regulator calls for publication of a code of practice for access to real time train information ORR's full conclusions document pdf icon PDF, 2,035 Kb 1 December 2009 
file_249.txt|The Regulations allow the MHRA to require sight of advertising before it is issued. Circumstances where vetting may be required include: where a newly licensed product subject to intensive monitoring, is placed on the market; where a product is reclassified product, such as from prescription only (POM) to pharmacy (P); or where previous advertising for a product has breached the Regulations. Within the first criterion above and as a matter of policy, the MHRA has committed to vet initial advertising for all new active substances. This implements recommendations by the Health Select Committee in its report, “ The Influence of the Pharmaceutical Industry " (external link). If you would like to enquire about whether we wish to vet advertising materials for a particular product, please email us at advertising@mhra.gsi.gov.uk . The following leaflet provides advice for companies submitting material for vetting. Tips for vetting of promotional material (110Kb) Companies may request a meeting with the MHRA to discuss issues that arise during the vetting procedure.  Further information on scientific advice meetings and a request form are available below: Scientific advice for licence applicants Monthly performance on vetting of advertising Details of the monthly percentage of advertising pieces submitted for vetting where the MHRA provided a response to the company within the target response time of five working days are available below: (28Kb) Complaints procedure Complaints about medicines advertising may be made in writing to the MHRA Advertising Unit, enclosing where possible a copy of the advertisement or promotional material to the MHRA, Advertising Standards Unit, 151 Buckingham Palace Road Victoria London, SW1W 9SZ, email advertising@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Alternatively, complete the online complaints form .  Complaints may also be made to the relevant self-regulatory body. The Agency acknowledges receipt of all complaints and will contact the advertiser concerned to investigate the case. Full details of how the MHRA investigates complaints and the actions that may be taken are provided in Chapter 8 of the 'Blue Guide' (49Kb) Fact sheet for advertising complaints (24Kb) During correspondence with the advertiser the identity of the complainant will remain confidential.  Once a case is resolved, MHRA may disclose the complainant’s company name if they are a competitor.  The identity of individual complainants will continue to remain confidential. We will endeavour to complete the investigation within 30 calendar days. This time may be extended where there is detailed discussion between the Agency and the company, or when statutory action is taken.  When closing the case the Agency will provide the complainant with details of the outcome and a summary report that will then be published on our website. A brief summary on the outcome of each complaint investigated is published in the following section of the website: Advertising complaints investigations Independent Review Panel for Advertising The Regulations allow a procedure for review of a preliminary opinion of the MHRA that an advertisement for a medicine might be in breach of the Advertising Regulations. The aim of this Independent Review Panel (IRP) is to ensure fairness and openness in the MHRA, with regards to decisions made on advertising. Companies will have the opportunity to make written representations to the Panel. The MHRA expects that the majority of concerns over advertising will continue to be resolved by informal negotiations with the companies concerned. The statutory right to a review of preliminary decisions together with the establishment of the Independent Review Panel for Advertising to advise Ministers, provides companies with an additional means of having a preliminary decision of their advertising material reconsidered before a final decision is taken by Ministers. The right to seek judicial review of an executive decision on advertising remains. Specific guidance for companies on how to make representations  to an Independent Review Panel, has been published by the MHRA as Appendix 8 of the Blue Guide (39Kb). Further details of the procedure can also be found in the following section of the MHRA website: 
file_283.txt|Random number and referring website 6 months Google analytics opt out To stop Google collecting this information, use the following link to opt out of all Google analytics. Google Analytics opt out Social media The code provided by Twitter to include Twitter functionality on our website may set cookies. For information about Twitter cookies go to the Twitter privacy policy . How to control and delete cookies We will not use cookies to collect personally identifiable information about you. However, if you wish to restrict or block the cookies which are set by our websites, or indeed any other website, you can do this through your browser settings. The ‘Help’ function within your browser should tell you how. Alternatively, you may wish to visit www.aboutcookies.org which contains comprehensive information on how to do this on a wide variety of browsers. You will also find details on how to delete cookies from your machine as well as more general information about cookies. Please be aware that restricting cookies may impact on the functionality of our website. If you wish to view your cookie code, just click on a cookie to open it. You'll see a short string of text and numbers. The numbers are your identification card, which can only be seen by the server that gave you the cookie. For information on how to do this on the browser of your mobile phone you will need to refer to your handset manual. See also 
file_479.txt|Channel Tunnel Channel Tunnel Intergovernmental Commission (IGC) and Safety Authority (CTSA) ORR is not the safety or economic regulator for the Channel Tunnel. Those roles are currently carried out by the bi-national (UK and French) Channel Tunnel Intergovernmental Commission (IGC). Safety and economic regulation are a key part of IGC's responsibility to supervise and monitor all matters relating to the operation of the Channel Tunnel. The infrastructure manager for the Channel Tunnel rail network is Eurotunnel, the trading name of the two private companies who won the 99 year concession (which expires in 2086) to build and operate the Channel Tunnel. The main operators using the Tunnel are: Eurotunnel's own cross-Channel passenger vehicle and HGV Shuttle service; Eurostar International Limited; In respect of the Channel Tunnel, IGC is responsible for: Safety authorisation of the infrastructure manager and its Shuttle services; Safety certification of train operators using the Tunnel; Authorisation to place rail vehicles into service; Regulation of access to the Channel Tunnel network, including charges; Determining appeals from train operators concerning Eurotunnel's management of the network; Facilitating a joined-up approach to physical security and border control arrangements, which remain subject to national jurisdiction; Monitoring and enforcing Eurotunnel's compliance with its Concession Agreement, on behalf of the UK and French governments. ORR provides the IGC's secretariat and several of its members. We also provide all but one of the UK members of the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority (CTSA, which is IGC's statutory independent safety advisory body) and all the UK members of IGC's joint economic committee (which advises IGC on access regulation). The IGC's official website , available in English and French, includes an explanation of IGC and CTSA's roles and responsibilities (including the special legal framework for the Channel Tunnel) and is the home of all the IGC's published decisions, correspondence, reports and guidance documents. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_826.txt|Safety Safety This section includes information about station platform gaps and on-train crowding, detailing how to report complaints and our safety policy position. Platform gaps and stepping distances The stepping distance between platform edge and train coaches can vary at some stations around the network. If the gap is too big it can be a risk to passengers getting on and off trains. Read more about platform gaps Complaints about crowding on trains How and who to report complaints about on-train passenger crowding; DfT's role in monitoring it and our policy on it, including our specific focus on higher risk situations. 
file_222.txt|Home Safety information Safety warnings, alerts and recalls Safety warnings, alerts and recalls This section includes current and historic: drug alerts on defective medicines medical device alerts and their predecessors safety warnings and messages about medicines, including letters sent to health professionals. Latest safety warnings, alerts and recalls 18 Dec 2014 ~ Class 2 medicines recall (action within 48 hours): Ebixa 5mg/pump actuation 50ml and 100ml bottle manufactured by Lundbeck Limited Lundbeck Limited is recalling specific batches of Ebixa 5mg/pump actuation 50ml and 100ml bottles because of a fault with some of the pump devices which may result in suboptimal dosage of the product. 08 Dec 2014 ~ Medical Device Alert: Toshiba ultrasound transducers - all models (MDA/2014/046) This medical device alert has been issued due to counterfeit ultrasound transducers having been supplied to 2 hospitals. 05 Dec 2014 ~ Medical Device Alert: Central Venous Catheters: Multicath Expert 5 Lumen (9.5FG/16cm) manufactured by Vygon (MDA/2014/045R) This MDA has been reissued to amend the national supply code for England on page 2. 02 Dec 2014 ~ Medical Device Alerts - monthly lists and yearly reviews A month-by-month list of MDAs that we have issued in 2014, and lists of archived MDAs. 26 Nov 2014 ~ Medical Device Alert: Mains power lead used with Omnifuse syringe pumps (all models).Part number 0151-0651. Manufactured by Smiths Medical International Ltd. (MDA/2014/044) This medical device alert is being issued due to the risk of interruption or delay in therapy due to incorrect design of the mains lead supplied by Smiths Medical. 25 Nov 2014 ~ Class 2 medicines recall (action within 48 hours): Mitoxantrone 2mg/ml Concentrate for Solution for Infusion manufactured by Hospira UK Limited Hospira UK Limited is recalling the above batches due to a number of confirmed out of specification test results obtained during stability studies. This MDA has been issued due to the risk of infection, breathing difficulties and allergic reactions. Show results 
file_187.txt|This section includes details of upcoming MHRA conference and events, as well as educational programmes for healthcare professionals about medicines and medical devices. It also gives information on how we can provide experienced MHRA speakers for your events. Conferences This section provides information about the MHRA’s events and conferences programme, including conference documentation and team contacts. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Go to the section on conferences Request a speaker MHRA speakers are renowned worldwide for their knowledge and expertise in Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Regulation and regularly participate in both high profile international events and smaller low key events. We can provide you with experienced speakers to match your event needs and enhance your event programme. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Educational programmes This section provides educational programmes for healthcare professionals about medicines and medical devices. The topics covered include: 
file_902.txt|Archived data Archived data Here you can access our archived data and reports that include statistical releases, NRT quarterly summaries, national rail trends publications, SRA rail trends publications and health and safety statistics. 
file_119.txt|Guide for software developers Guidance for software developers showing how to update their products to support automatic enrolment. From October 2012, employers have new legal duties to automatically enrol certain members of staff into a pension scheme and make contributions towards it. It's important that you support your employer clients in complying with their new duties. This guidance is a comprehensive guide to the key concepts in automatic enrolment included in the ‘core’ payroll routines and wider routines supporting the end to end duties. It describes the employer duties using a technical notation and may not be suitable for a more general readership. The guidance for software developers is of particular relevance to developers with employer customers who have fewer than 50 persons in their PAYE scheme. This is because with the staggered introduction of the new duties, employers with fewer than 50 persons in their PAYE scheme, will become subject to the new duties during the 2015-2016 financial year. Guides A detailed guide to automatic enrolment for software developers (PDF, 3412kb, 285 pages) Updated April 2014: we've updated this guide to include the 2014/15 automatic earnings thresholds which come into force on 6 April 2014. This guidance is aimed at software developers involved with payroll applications and wider business applications and with employer customers with fewer than 50 persons in their PAYE scheme. Annex C contains a list of the changes since November 2013. A quick guide to recent changes to automatic enrolment regulations (PDF, 56kb, 7 pages) Only relevant to software developers who have already developed systems to support automatic enrolment (typically with employer customers with more than 50 persons in their PAYE scheme), this note summarises the recent technical changes made to the automatic enrolment legislation along with a note on the changes we have made to a detailed guide to automatic enrolment for software developers. Test data companion (PDF, 717kb, 270 pages) Updated April 2014: designed to be used in conjunction with a detailed guide to automatic enrolment for software developers, the test data companion provides a number of fictitious test scenarios on the new duties. The test data companion has been updated to include test scenarios where the definition of a pay reference period is aligned to tax weeks or months and cyclical automatic re-enrolment. Contact us Contact us if you have any questions on our guide to automatic enrolment for software developers at: pensoftware@thepensionsregulator.gov.uk Subscribe to news-by-email Our free news-by-email service keeps you informed of all the latest updates about automatic enrolment, including new products and services available on our website. Sign up today to make sure you don't miss out. 
file_315.txt|Browse reports / data Passenger rail service satisfaction This section includes data on the volume of complaints made to train operating companies and passenger watchdogs. It covers what the passengers are complaining about and how they have made the complaint. It also includes data on the number of calls made to National Rail Enquiries and how these calls are handled. Passenger rail service satisfaction 
file_727.txt|Annual reports on HS1 Ltd Annual report on HS1 Ltd 2013-14 We publish an annual report of High Speed 1 (HS1) Limited. These reports set out how we consider HS1 Limited has performed and the regulatory work that has been done during the previous year. The report also outlines the work we expect to undertake in the forthcoming year. 
file_235.txt|Home About us Who we are Who we are Our activities The MHRA is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in the UK by ensuring they work and are acceptably safe. Underpinning all our work lies robust and fact-based judgements to ensure that the benefits justify any risks. The MHRA is a centre of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency which also includes the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) , (external link)  and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) . (external link) The MHRA is an executive agency of the Department of Health. Watch our video with Ian Hudson, Chief Executive, describing the role of the organisation. Our vision and values Vision We protect and improve the health of millions of people every day through the effective regulation of medicines and medical devices, underpinned by science and research. Values In pursuing our vision we will strive to be: innovative Our aims are: Protecting public health through regulation, with acceptable benefit-risk profiles for medicines and devices. Promoting public health by helping people who use these products to understand their risks and benefits. Improving public health by encouraging and facilitating developments in products that will benefit people. Objectives Our strategic objectives are to: safeguard public health through our primary role in ensuring that the products we regulate meet required standards, that they work and are acceptably safe carry out our communication role through the provision of accurate, timely and authoritative information to healthcare professionals, patients and the public support research, ensuring through the application of Better Regulation principles that regulation does not stifle innovation influence the shape of the future regulatory framework through use of our effective European and International relationships run an organisation with a skilled and equipped workforce that is fit for the future. These are achieved through: authorising medicines before they can be marketed, taking both their safety and effectiveness into account ensuring clinical trials meet robust standards and safeguard patient’s interests inspecting the quality of medicines as manufactured and distributed overseeing UK Notified Bodies that audit medical device manufacturers encouraging everyone to report suspected problems with both medicines and devices and then investigating these reports Investigating, and prosecuting where necessary, cases of non-compliance including advertising claims. Page last modified: 		 		06 February 2014 
file_28.txt|Using automatic enrolment online declaration of compliance (registration) Automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) is a secure, online service accessed through the Government Gateway. Find out who can complete the declaration and what to do if you’re acting on behalf of an employer. If you have a query about completing the declaration see our automatic enrolment declaration of compliance questions . Start your declaration of compliance today Start your declaration now We recommend starting your declaration as soon as you can. Adding the required information as it becomes available will help make sure you don't miss your deadline. Your declaration will be complete once you complete and submit all the required information to us. On this page Key points You must tell us how you’ve complied with your automatic enrolment duties by providing certain information. Automatic enrolment declaration is an online process. You will need a Government Gateway User ID, your letter code and your PAYE reference to submit your declaration. Employers and third parties, such as accountants or advisers, can complete the declaration on the employer’s behalf. It’s possible to complete declaration for multiple employers using one login by selecting the ‘acting on behalf of an employer’ option. Start filling in details early on to help make sure you don’t miss the deadline. Government Gateway Government Gateway allows you to communicate and make transactions across various government sites from a single, secure point of entry. You’ll need a Government Gateway User ID before you can use the online automatic enrolment declaration service. When you first sign up to use the service, you’ll be asked if you already have a Government Gateway User ID. If you do, for example, for submitting tax returns to HM Revenue and Customs, you can use the same one. If you don’t, you’ll be able to create one as part of the sign-up process. For more information go to Government Gateway . Back to top Who can complete the declaration? It’s the employer’s duty to complete the automatic enrolment declaration of compliance. But employers can authorise someone else to act on their behalf, if they prefer. For example, you may want to ask your accountant who already deals with your PAYE returns for HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC). If you use a third party, it’s still your responsibility to make sure all the information provided on your behalf is true and correct. When you first access the automatic enrolment declaration online service, you’ll need to select whether you’re declaring as the employer or if you’re acting on behalf of an employer: ‘Employer’ here means anyone working within the employer organisation who is completing a declaration for only one employer. If you’re completing a declaration for more than one employer within your corporate group, select ‘acting on behalf of an employer’. If you don’t work within the employing organisation, for example, accountants or IFAs, select ‘acting on behalf of an employer’. You’ll need the employer’s letter code and PAYE reference to log in and start the declaration. Back to top Employers completing the declaration If you have an existing Government Gateway User ID, use it to log into our automatic enrolment declaration of compliance online service. If you don’t have a Government Gateway User ID, select ‘no’ when asked. This will take you to a screen where you can create one straight away. You’ll need it each time you log in to the declaration online service. Back to top Declaration if you're acting on behalf of an employer Your clients may ask you to complete the declaration of compliance for them. You can act on behalf of multiple clients using one login. Anyone completing declarations for several employers within their corporate group can do it all on one login. This saves you having to log in multiple times and generate several different user IDs. When you first sign up to use the automatic enrolment declaration online service on behalf of an employer, you’ll need to get your unique employer agent reference number from us. We’ll ask you to fill in a short form with your name and contact details, then we’ll email your employer agent reference number to you straight away. You’ll also need a Government Gateway User ID. If you already have one, you can use that. If not, you can create one when you log in to use the service. When you’ve got both your employer agent reference number and your Government Gateway User ID, you can start filling in details straight away. Filling in information as you get it We recommend starting your automatic enrolment declaration of compliance before your staging date. You can add details that you already know, like the employer address and your own contact details. Add information as it becomes available, such as details about the pension scheme you’ll use for automatic enrolment once you’ve set it up. This will make it easier when it comes to submitting your declaration, particularly if you postpone automatic enrolment and only have a short amount of time between the end of the postponement period and your declaration deadline. If your declaration deadline falls on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday, you can provide your declaration on the next working day. 
file_996.txt|View all our Closed Consultations Latest comments Gillian Dearman : I like the progression that is evident from the KS3 reforms. My initial thoughts are that this...2014-11-03 19:32:56Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Jo Prothero : Looking forward to the new GCSE. Cooking and Nutrition is not a good name, not very academic sou...2014-11-03 17:39:45Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 clare syer : Great specfication, challenging in both practical skills and nutritional knowledge. I think secti...2014-11-03 09:58:19Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Pip Shaw : I read and agree with so many of the above points made by colleagues and peers. What I feel contr...2014-11-02 11:12:08Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Alison Wade : I have to agree with John, however I have heard that in D&T the students will have to study 2...2014-11-02 08:09:12Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Quick links 
file_338.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_699.txt|Financial ring-fence Consents for condition 4 of Network Rail's network licence - financial ring-fence Consents granted since the modification to condition 4 ( financial ring-fence ) on 18 Nov 2002 are listed below. Date of consent Extension of consent to property related activities 1 Apr 2014 - 31 Mar 2015 Dividend payment from NRIL to NR Holdco n/a Transfer of BRBR assets to Network Rail ongoing Consent to property related activities 1 Oct 2010 - 31 Mar 2014 Consent in respect of services to High Speed 1 ongoing Consent to property related activities - extension to consent 08/06/05 1 Apr 2010 - 30 Sep 2010 Extension of property related activities Extend to 31 Mar 2010 Establishment of a multi-site joint venture for the development of several stations in south east England ongoing Consent to act as a NoBo for third party activities ongoing Ownership of locomotives for the trial of ERTMS on the Cambrian route 30 Oct 2006 - 31 Dec 2018 95m to DfT and TS re overstatement of debt in ACR2003; and 275m to DfT re compensation for additional funding provided n/a Consent to property related activities 8 Jun 2006 - 31 Mar 2009 Consent to property related activities 8 Jun 2005 - 7 Jun 2006 ORR consent pdf icon PDF, 155 Kb 21-May-04 Date extension for Project Rio - payments to Midland Main Line for provision of passenger services between St Pancras and Manchester Piccadilly Summer change date 2004 to 11 Sep 2004 16-May-03 Project Rio - payments to Midland Main Line for provision of passenger services between StPancras and Manchester Piccadilly Summer change date 2003 to Summer change date 2004 
file_597.txt|Enforcement policy Health and safety enforcement policy This page introduces our enforcement policy statement and explains the purposes and principles of enforcement of health and safety law. Our health and safety enforcement policy statement pdf icon PDF, 228 Kb is an important document. It explains the purposes and principles of enforcement of health and safety law. Our aim is to protect the health, safety and welfare of people at work. To safeguard others, mainly passengers and members of the public who may be exposed to risks related to the operation of guided transport systems. We are not bound by any enforcement approach taken by the Health and Safety Commission (HSC), HSE or local authorities. Nevertheless, it is appropriate that a consistent approach is taken to enforcement across all industry sectors and our enforcement policy is consistent with that issued by the HSC to the HSE and local authorities. The appropriate use of enforcement and prosecution powers is important, both to secure compliance with the law and to ensure that those who have duties under it may be held to account for failures to safeguard health, safety and welfare. The ultimate purpose of our enforcement policy is to ensure that duty holders manage and control risks effectively, thus preventing harm. Economic policy enforcement As the economic regulator, we also enforce economic regulation of the railways. See our economic enforcement section for more. Other enforcement roles We are also the enforcing authority for the interoperability , rail vehicle accessibility and train driving licences and certificates regulations, and our HSWA enforcement policy statement also sets out the way in which we will ensure compliance with these statutory requirements. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_624.txt|General information on level crossings and our current policies are set out on this page. Statement Statement on level crossings by Ian Prosser, ORR's Director of Safety: "Great Britain's level crossings, although among the safest in Europe, pose a significant rail safety risk to the public. ORR wants the rail industry to close level crossings, but where this is impracticable is pushing the industry to deliver innovative solutions such as implementing new technology to make crossings safe. ORR inspects the industry's management of level crossings to check that legal safety requirements are being met. Where failings are found, immediate action is taken to ensure the crossing is made safe." What is a level crossing? A level crossing is where a railway line is crossed by a road or right of way without the use of a tunnel or bridge. How many level crossings are there? There are approximately 8,000 level crossings in Great Britain. Around 6,500 of these are managed by Network Rail . The rest are located on heritage railways, metro systems and industrial railways. Level crossing risk Level crossings account for nearly half of the catastrophic train accident risk on Britain's railways. We believe that the safe design, management and operation of level crossings can reduce the risks, have a positive effect on user behaviour and so reduce the number of fatal and serious incidents. In this section Types of level crossings – descriptions of level crossing types. Managing risks at level crossings – our policy on managing the risks from level crossings and how this should be carried out. Using level crossings safely – guidance aimed at businesses, landowners and individual users who may use passive crossings on a regular basis. Policy – our current level crossings policy. Legislation – the law on level crossings. Safety Performance – for the latest information on the safety performance of level crossings. Last updated - 24 April 2014 
file_252.txt|MHRA key BROMI contacts Better regulation is an important Government agenda, aimed at minimising bureaucracy for businesses and front-line staff in the public sector and delivering better public services. As part of this initiative, and in response to the Better Regulation Task Force report `Regulation - Less is More’ March 2005 (external link), all Government Departments have drawn up simplification plans. One aspect of the Department of Health’s simplification plan (which can be viewed at on the Department of Health website) is the work of BROMI. 4 November 2011: MHRA stop sending Anonymised Single Patient Reports (ASPRs)/Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) from literature articles to industry Anonymised Single Patient Reports (ASPRs) and electronic equivalent, E2B Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) sent to industry by the MHRA from ADRs reported in literature articles have been identified by the BROMI Vigilance workstream as an area where significant efficiencies could be made. As of 24 October 2011, the MHRA updated the logic for how adverse drug reaction reports received are sent out to companies to prevent literature article based ADRs being sent out as ASPRs/ICSRs. Analysis by the MHRA has shown that this will reduce the number of ASPRs/ICSRs sent out to industry by between 33-50%. The MHRA will be performing an analysis on the reduction in ASPRs/ICSR to calculate estimated savings, and results will be presented at the subsequent BROMI Vigilance meeting and communicated to industry. Companies should continue to check the list of literature ADRs reported to the MHRA to check whether an ADR from a literature article has already been reported. The following process should be followed: Once a literature article reporting an ADR is identified, this should be entered into the marketing authorisation holder’s (MAH’s) pharmacovigilance system for collection and collation of ADR reports. Before submission of an expedited report to the MHRA, open the Excel file. Check the literature reference in the company report against the literature references. If the literature article and patient details can already be identified in the list, the company report should not be forwarded to the MHRA. The MHRA ADR reference should be added to the company ADR documentation and a record added that the ADR has been located on the MHRA literature ADR list with date. If the literature article and patient cannot be identified in this list, the ADR should be submitted to the MHRA as per the reporting requirements defined in Volume 9A. For access to the list, and more information please visit the page below: Adverse drug reaction (ADR) reports received by the MHRA from literature articles 17 February 2011: Best Practice in Reporting of Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) We are pleased to announce the release of the 'Best Practice in Reporting of Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)'. The guide sets the MHRA's position on how to code adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to a high-quality standard for entry into our Sentinel database. Data quality of ICSRs is an important issue that affects all stakeholders, particularly to support accurate detection and analysis of drug safety signals. Furthermore, errors in reports create a large volume of enquiries, resulting in a significant administrative burden for both industry and the MHRA in updating cases. The need to develop a guide was identified as a Better Regulation of Medicines Initiative (BROMI), combining ideas from both the MHRA and UK industry trade associations to address differences that occur in classification and coding practices across companies. Industry colleagues may be aware that in parallel to producing this guide we have been conducting quality audits on a company by company basis. The selection for audit may be based upon concerns raised through review of reports at signal assessment, compliance data or intelligence gathered from pharmacovigilance inspections. Companies with a high error rate are invited to discuss the findings. It is hoped the guide will contribute to delivering high standards in classification by highlighting common findings from audits of ICSRs and providing specific examples of good practice. We see the guide as a useful way to improve quality without the need for face to face meetings with companies. We hope you find this guidance helpful and are able to implement the ‘Best Practice’ within your pharmacovigilance system. If you have any comments or questions, please send them to the Pharmacovigilance Service Desk by e-mail pharmacovigilanceservice@mhra.gsi.gov.uk 
file_230.txt|All herbal safety warnings and alerts 7 May 2014 MHRA is advising consumers not to use the following slimming pills as these products have been found by regulators in other countries to contain prescription only drug ingredients that are not declared on the product labels. Prescription drugs should only be taken under the supervision of a healthcare professional. Lightning 10.0+ Reduces Weight is promoted for weight loss. It comes packaged in white boxes with blister packs of 8 dark green/light green capsules. According to the product packaging, the product is manufactured in China. The Hong Kong Department of Health found that samples of Lightening 10.0+ were found to contain sibutramine, phenolphthalein, and indomethacin, drug ingredients that were not declared on the product label. Sibutramine was previously used to treat obesity but has been withdrawn in the EU on safety grounds, due to increased risk of heart attacks and strokes. Any product containing it considered harmful to public health. STB Summit of the Thin Body S Woman Degreasing Burning Pill comes packaged in white plastic bottles containing gold capsules. The Hong Kong Department of Health warned consumers not to use STB Summit of the Thin Body S Woman Degreasing Burning Pill after it was found to contain sibutramine, phenolphthalein, and sildenafil, drug ingredients that were not declared on the product label. LV Shou Reduces Fat comes packaged in white plastic bottles containing white and green capsules. The Hong Kong Department of Health warned consumers not to use LV Shou Reduces Fat after it was found to contain sibutramine, a drug ingredient that was not declared on the product label. Sibutramine was previously used to treat obesity but has been withdrawn in the EU on safety grounds, due to increased risk of heart attacks and strokes. Any product containing it considered harmful to public health. Phenolphthalein is a solution used in chemical experiments and a suspected cancer-causing agent.  In addition to cancer, side effects associated with phenolphthalein include decreased blood pressure, skin rash and gastrointestinal bleeding. Indomethacin is a prescription only drug in the family known as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and is used to treat pain, fever and inflammation. Side effects associated with indomethacin include changes in blood pressure, gastrointestinal disorders (with or without bleeding), anemia, kidney failure and reduced blood clotting ability. Sildenafil is a prescription only drug used to treat erectile dysfunction which can cause potentially life-threatening high blood pressure. Individuals with heart problems are at increased risk of cardiovascular side-effects such as heart attack, stroke, chest pain and abnormal heart beat. Other side effects include headache, indigestion, dizziness and abnormal vision. 
file_500.txt|Accurate information on journey times, punctuality and reliability Clear information on fares and ticketing Information on disruption to services and how they will be affected Better understanding of their rights when things go wrong Reassurance on the safety of the network Disability rights and provision What they can do about complaints that they feel Network Rail and the train operating companies haven't addressed properly. How they benefit: Able to plan their journeys better and make choices on cost and route Know what to do when things go wrong and how they can gain recompense. Train operating companies Clear data at a meaningful level on Network Rail performance and operations Comparative information on how other operating companies are performing Overall data on network usage How they benefit: Better ability to plan their businesses Shared best practice across the sector They can hold Network Rail to account more effectively Governments Trend data on network usage by operators and passengers Detailed information on Network Rail performance – both financial and operational Information to make informed decisions on how public money is being spent and what it is delivering How they benefit: Better modelling of long term funding requirements and more effective monitoring and operation of franchises Greater assurance over value for money from public subsidy Better public accountability on performance and efficiency by Network Rail Network Rail Trend data on network usage by operators and passengers Objective information on performance and efficiency How they benefit: Better ability to plan their business more effectively Reputational benefit from greater public accountability Members and board are better equipped to hold the executive to account Taxpayers Information on how public money is spent and the value for money it provides Performance data on services funded by public subsidy How they benefit: Better able to hold governments to account for use of public money More informed scrutiny of publicly funded service providers Last updated - 19 August 2014 
file_862.txt|A summary of the passengers’ experience of planning journeys, choosing rail, buying tickets and using its services drawing on new research into passengers’ decisions, past research into buying and travel habits. 2 Apr 2014 We commissioned some research to see how much people knew about the assistance provided when travelling by rail. 28 Mar 2014 Rail passenger compensation and refund rights - report on rail passengers' awareness of their compensation and refund rights. 21 Feb 2014 The role of the independent reporter is to provide us with professional advice on the quality of Network Rail's provision, as specified in their licence. 16 Dec 2013 A list of reports produced by our consultants and reporters. 30 Oct 2013 How we fulfil our responsibilities to keep rail markets under review and to take appropriate measures where markets are not working to the benefit of users or funders. 15 Sep 2013 Assessing what impact putting more data on seat availability into the public domain has on passengers’ behaviour. 26 Jul 2012 Research on passengers’ current perceptions of complexity in the fares and ticketing system. 7 Jun 2012 A list of the consultants’ reports relating to the 2008 periodic review (PR08). 18 Feb 2009 
file_583.txt|Work and health effects Occupational health work and health effects An overview of the effects of work on health in the UK and the costs to employers and society and advice on how these health effects can be prevented and where to go for more information.  The most recent statistics obtained by HSE from the Labour Force Survey show the harmful effect of some types of work on health. In 2011/12: an estimated 1.8 million people were suffering from an illness they believe was caused or made worse by their current or past work; 22.7 million working days were lost due to work-related illness; and 4.3 million days due to workplace injury. The rail industry workforce is included in this survey and many of their workers will have suffered from work-related illnesses. A revised HSE cost model estimates that new work related illnesses (excluding occupational cancers) cost: GB society around £8.5 billion in 2009-10. employers (rather than to individuals and government) an estimated  £1.87 billion. society £16,100 for each new case of workplace ill health and employers £4,000 per new ill health case (compared with £3,100 for RIDDOR reportable injuries). Many work-related health problems can be prevented if work is properly managed and controlled. The case studies page provides examples of good practice. Work needs to be properly planned to both understand and stop health risks. An appropriate risk assessment will identify the risks and this can then be used to make sure the work is carried out without causing workers health problems. Guidance on risk assessments can be found at Working for health and the HSE . Managers and supervisors have a key role in identifying and managing risks to workers' health. The rail manager competence pages provide good practice guidance on what rail managers need to know on occupational health and how to manage these risks, including a draft health training syllabus for rail managers. The Government-led initiative, Health, Work and Wellbeing aims to protect and improve the health and wellbeing of working age people.  Further information can be found on their website. Anyone who wants to improve their own health and help others to do so can find a range of advice on the Department of Health's (DoH) website. Employers can also voluntarily sign up to the DoH's public health responsibility deal pledges . By signing up, organisations commit to help improve public health through their commercial and community actions and activities as well as their responsibilities as employers. Last updated - 16 July 2014 
file_596.txt|Enforcement powers Health and safety enforcement powers Our inspectors have a number of powers given to them by the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, which range from giving advice and information through to prosecution in the courts. Our aim is firm but fair enforcement of health and safety law. Many deficiencies can be dealt with before formal enforcement becomes necessary. If necessary, we will take action on those who break health and safety legislation, as this puts both passengers and workers at risk. What enforcement powers do we have? We have several levels of enforcement action available: information and advice – this could be given verbally, or a written warning of non-compliance; improvement notices – whereby there has to be an improvement in activity within a set timescale prohibition notices – whereby work must stop completely until an issue has been addressed issue cautions – a formal caution is a statement by an inspector and accepted in writing by the dutyholder, that the dutyholder has committed an offence for which there is a realistic prospect of conviction. It will be very unusual for a caution to be issued. prosecution – the final stage where we take action under health and safety legislation. Cases can be prepared against both companies and individuals. They can be heard in either magistrates or crown courts. Those being prosecuted can be fined, although breaches of enforcement notices can result in prison sentences. Where can I find details of notices and prosecutions? We hold a public register giving details of when we issue improvement notices , prohibition notices and prosecutions . Further information 
file_606.txt|What rail employers need to do What rail employers need to do It is important for rail companies to adopt an organisational approach to preventing work related stress, including use of the HSE management standards approach or similar as a framework for stress risk assessment. Although many rail companies have effective arrangements for supporting individuals who have suffered stress or trauma in the workplace, this reactive approach is only part of the solution. In many cases a key element is missing: preventing harmful levels of stress developing by means of a systematic risk assessment to identify changes to the organisation and/or the job design, rather than to the individual. This is the main area where we believe that many rail employers could do more. In order to meet legal duties under the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999 rail employers need to assess and reduce the risk of harmful levels of workplace stress occurring. This may require preventive action at an organisational level, for example by changes to job design, task allocation, training, and supervision. Excellent employers will go beyond this legal compliance to demonstrate best practice by also providing interventions focused on supporting the individual, for example by building individual resilience to stress, and by supporting recovery and rehabilitation. Although they are not required by health and safety law, interventions involving support for individuals and reasonable adjustments on return to work may help rail employers to meet duties under civil law, particularly the Equality Act 2010. There are established approaches and guidance to help employers meet the legal duty on preventing work related stress. The HSE management standards provide a well-tested, step by step approach to risk assessment for work related stress at an organisational level. As it is aimed at the whole organisation rather than an individual, more employees can benefit from any actions taken, with potential for gains in efficiency and performance across the business. RSSB guidance recognises that using the management standards to improve job design can also drive better employee engagement. Use of the management standards approach is not required by law, but it can help in demonstrating a suitable and sufficient risk assessment. There are other toolkits which take a similar approach to identifying the underlying causes of work stress at an organisational level, which rail employers might also choose to use. Managers, HR professionals, and employees all have key roles in delivering a preventive approach to stress management, but need to work together to maximise the positive effects for worker health, as well as financial and productivity gains. Our position paper pdf icon PDF, 1,006 Kb sets out in more detail how we will work with the industry to promote a comprehensive approach to managing workplace stress, with priority on assessing and preventing stress at an organisational level, supported by good practice which focuses on supporting the individual. Last updated - 20 June 2014 
file_176.txt|Media Centre Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency We protect and improve the health of millions of people every day through the effective regulation of medicines and medical devices, underpinned by science and research. Keep up to date with the latest updates from the MHRA. Follow us on twitter @MHRAGovUK and @MHRAGovUKPress Our website is moving to... View all news and press releases > Careers @ MHRA Find out more about working at the MHRA and view our current vacancies through the Civil Service jobs website Education modules side effect to a medicine or vaccine, herbal or homeopathic remedy a problem with a medical device a defective medicine a fake (counterfeit) medicine or medical device Yellow Card is now the single route for reporting blood reaction/event Latest safety information This section includes Drug Alerts on defective medicines, Medical Device Alerts and safety warnings and messages about medicines. 
file_87.txt|Employer covenant As part of the funding approach for your defined benefit pension scheme, you should understand the current strength of the employer covenant and how it could change in the future. This is because the employer underwrites the risks to the scheme. 
file_376.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_334.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_293.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_377.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_474.txt|Transport Scotland Transport Scotland Transport Scotland was established in January 2006 as an executive agency of the Scottish Executive directly accountable to Scottish Ministers. Transport Scotland has responsibility for the majority of rail powers in Scotland, while responsibility for safety regulation across Great Britain remains with the Office of Rail Regulation. In July 2004, the Department for Transport (DfT) published The Future of Rail White Paper. A major change introduced by this was the transfer of responsibility for rail strategy and funding in Scotland to Scottish Ministers. This means the Secretary of State for Transport and Scottish Ministers will now provide us with separate high level output specifications (HLOSs) and a statement of the public funds available (SOFAs) for the delivery of those outputs in England and Wales and Scotland respectively. In practice, at future access charge reviews we will establish Network Rail's outputs and corresponding revenue requirement separately for Scotland and for England and Wales. In December 2005, we published our approach to regulation in Scotland pdf icon PDF, 479 Kb . The focus was on how we will conduct future access charges reviews, and how we will work with Scottish Ministers to secure their reasonable requirements for the railway in Scotland. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_78.txt|Governance and administration of occupational defined contribution trust-based schemes Code of practice 13 Relevant for: Professionals - Trustees Summary: This code of practice sets out the legal requirements and standards of governance and administration that trustees of occupational defined contribution (DC) trust-based schemes need to attain. Code in force: November 2013 Note: On 6 April 2014 the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations 2013 replaced the Occupational Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations 1996. References to the 1996 regulations will be amended when the code is next updated. You should read this code of practice in conjunction with our regulatory guidance on defined contribution schemes . On this page... Appendix: Corresponding Northern Ireland legislation Introduction This code of practice (the DC code) is issued by The Pensions Regulator (the ‘regulator’), the body that regulates occupational and personal pension schemes provided through employers. The regulator’s statutory objectives[1] are to: protect the benefits of pension scheme members reduce the risks of calls on the Pension Protection Fund promote, and improve understanding of, the good administration of work-based pension schemes maximise compliance with the duties and safeguards of the Pensions Act 2008. The regulator has a number of regulatory tools, including issuing codes of practice, to enable it to meet its statutory objectives. Codes of practice provide practical guidelines on the requirements of pensions legislation. They set out standards of conduct and practice expected of those who must meet these requirements[2]. Status of codes of practice Codes of practice are not statements of the law and there is no penalty for failing to comply with them. It is not necessary for all the provisions of a code of practice to be followed in every circumstance. Any alternative approach to that appearing in the code of practice will nevertheless need to meet the underlying legal requirements and a penalty may be imposed if these requirements are not met. When determining whether the legal requirements have been met, a court or tribunal must take any relevant provisions of a code of practice into account[3]. If there are grounds to issue an improvement notice, the regulator may issue a notice directing a person to take, or refrain from taking, such steps as are specified in the notice. These directions may be worded by reference to a code of practice issued by the regulator[4]. This code of practice This DC code is underpinned by a number of defined contribution (DC) quality features that describe those activities, behaviours and control processes that are more likely to deliver good member outcomes. The DC quality features are set in the context of their legal requirements and represent the standards we expect trustees to attain. They will help trustees to demonstrate they are complying with legal requirements. The practical guidance sections in this DC code are not intended to prescribe the process for every scenario. They do, however, provide principles, examples and benchmarks against which trustees can consider whether or not they are reasonably complying with and have understood their duties and obligations. If trustees are, for any reason, unable to act in accordance with the procedures set out in this DC code, or an alternative approach that meets the underlying requirements, they should consider their statutory duty under section 70 of the Pensions Act 2004 to assess and if necessary report breaches of the law. To whom is this code directed? This DC code applies to trustees of all occupational DC trust-based pension schemes with two or more members (whether active, deferred or pensioner) which offer the following types of benefit: money purchase benefits, including additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) under occupational defined benefit (DB) trust-based pension schemes or sections and the DC element of hybrid schemes money purchase benefits with a DB underpin: we would normally expect these benefits to be treated as money purchase benefits throughout their lifetime but with the relevant DB legislation and supporting codes of practice and guidance also applied to the underpin (as trustees must ensure that appropriate funding is in place for the underpin). This DC code also applies where governance and administration functions described in the DC code applicable to trustees have been delegated to a sub-committee or outsourced. This DC code does not apply to: schemes providing DB benefits only or DB benefits in hybrid schemes work-based personal pensions, stakeholder schemes or other contract-based schemes. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this DC code impacts on these two types of arrangements. These continue as described in existing codes and guidance issued by the regulator. Terms used in this code For the purpose of this DC code, reference to ‘trustees’ includes trustee directors of a corporate trustee. How to use this code The DC code is structured as a reference document to be used by trustees to inform their actions in five core areas of scheme governance. While trustees need to be familiar with the DC code as a whole, we suggest they work through each section systematically. For example, trustees could prioritise sections of the DC code and work through the detail on a modular basis. In certain areas, the practical guidance sections have been drafted to address issues which may be more relevant to particular types of schemes, for example master trusts. We define a master trust as an occupational trust-based pension scheme established by declaration of trust which is or has been promoted to provide benefits to employers which are not connected and where each employer group is not included in a separate section with its own trustees. For this purpose, employers are connected if they are part of the same group of companies (including partially owned subsidiaries and joint ventures). Other relevant codes of practice The DC code provides trustees with a central point of reference for areas of governance addressed by the DC quality features. The DC code draws on information already contained in two other codes of practice – Code of practice no. 7: Trustee knowledge and understanding and Code of practice no. 9: Internal controls and builds on the requirements from a DC perspective. Trustees should also read the following codes of practice in conjunction with this DC code: Reporting breaches of the law Trustee knowledge and understanding (TKU) Internal controls Reporting late payment of contributions to occupational pension schemes Member-nominated trustees/member-nominated directors – putting arrangements in place Early leavers – reasonable periods Dispute resolution – reasonable periods. Trustees of schemes which offer hybrid benefits should read this DC code alongside all our codes. Relationship with the DC regulatory guidance The DC code and DC regulatory guidance: Governance and administration of occupational defined contribution trust-based pension schemes address the DC quality features that we expect to be present in all occupational DC trust-based schemes that provide money purchase benefits. The DC code focuses on quality features that are related to the requirements of pensions legislation and the DC regulatory guidance covers those quality features that reflect our view of good practice. Trustees should read the DC code and DC regulatory guidance in conjunction with each other. Northern Ireland In this DC code, references to the law that applies in Great Britain should be taken to include corresponding legislation in Northern Ireland. The appendix to this DC code lists the corresponding references. Footnotes for this section [1] Section 5(1) of the Pensions Act 2004 (c.35). [2] Section 90(1) of the Pensions Act 2004. [3] Section 90(5) of the Pensions Act 2004. [4] Section 13(3) of the Pensions Act 2004. reviewing and updating skills and knowledge. Understanding trustees' duties In a quality scheme, trustees will: understand their duties and be fit and proper to carry them out ensure that sufficient time and resources are identified and made available for maintaining the ongoing governance of the scheme. Legal requirements Trustees of occupational DC trust-based pension schemes must have knowledge and understanding of: law relating to pensions and trusts principles relating to investment matters[5]. In relation to a trustee’s knowledge of pensions and trusts law, trustees must have an appropriate degree of knowledge and understanding to enable them to properly exercise their functions as a trustee[6]. Trustees must be conversant with (ie have a working knowledge of) relevant scheme documents to be able to use them effectively when carrying out their duties. Relevant documents include the scheme rules, the scheme’s statement of investment principles and any other documents which relate to administration of the scheme. Trustees with any special knowledge or experience, or who act as a trustee in the course of a business or profession, must meet a higher standard of care as set out in the Trustee Act 2000[7]. In relation to investment, all trustees must take advice from professional advisers regulated by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000[8]. They must use special knowledge or experience in a manner that would reasonably be expected of a person acting in the course of that kind of business or profession. When considering the internal controls provisions[9] in the Pensions Act 2004, trustees will have to manage these obligations. Practical guidance to help trustees[10] Deciding what level of knowledge is required Trustees should read their scheme’s rules, deeds of amendment, statement of investment principles, payment schedule, member booklets and other key member communications. They should understand these documents in enough detail to know where to refer to a particular provision in the event an issue arises. For example, to aid discussions around investment options, trustees should be familiar with the scope of their investment power. They should understand key elements of their statement of investment principles and identify any constraints to investment decision-making. We expect a trustee’s breadth of knowledge and understanding to be sufficient to allow the trustee to understand fully any advice they are given. We expect trustees to be able to challenge any advice they are given and understand how advice impacts on any decisions for which they are legally responsible. The level of knowledge and understanding required of trustees will vary according to the role and expertise of the trustee and the type of scheme. For example, we expect a trustee of an occupational DC trust-based pension scheme who is also an investment expert (for instance as a result of their day job) to have a greater level of knowledge than what we would consider appropriate for trustees without this background. However, all trustees should attain appropriate knowledge so that they are able to understand the key areas around investment in some detail. A professional trustee (ie someone who acts as a trustee in the course of their business or profession and charges for their services) is expected to have a higher level of knowledge than a lay trustee. What trustees need to know The benefits that the scheme offers Trustees of occupational DC trust-based pension schemes should be familiar with the benefits offered under their scheme. In particular, they should understand what constitutes a money purchase benefit as described in the Pensions Act 2011 and be familiar with exactly where their scheme fits within this. In the case of hybrid schemes, trustees should ensure they understand the differences between the treatment of money purchase benefits and DB benefits, and how money purchase assets are held compared with the DB assets. Details of the types of benefits offered are usually described in the scheme rules so it is important that trustees understand these. They are also described sometimes in members’ terms of employment. While trustees are not expected to review members’ terms and conditions of employment, they may want the employer(s) to confirm that scheme benefits are consistent with terms of employment. Trustees should also establish whether the employer(s) intends their scheme to be used as an automatic enrolment scheme. The scope of trustees’ powers under the rules Trustees of occupational DC trust-based pension schemes must understand the extent of key DC powers in their scheme rules[11], which includes the following. The scope of the trustees’ investment power. Trustees should review this power to understand the extent (if any) to which their power of investment under the rules is limited. The scope of the trustees’ power to amend their scheme. Trustees should establish who has the ability to amend the scheme rules – is it the trustees, employer, provider (in the case of master trusts) or a joint power? This rule is key as it determines who has the power to change future service benefits, for example where contribution structures are written into the rules. Who has the power to appoint and remove trustees. On what basis the trustees can act. For example, whether decisions are made by majority vote or must be unanimous. Specific arrangements for the numbers and identities of trustees signing documents are often made outside the scheme rules, but trustees should establish what these arrangements are and ensure they are clearly documented. Whether trustee powers to appoint or remove advisers are limited. Who has the power to authorise bulk transfers in and out of the scheme. The scope of the power to terminate and wind up the scheme. In particular, trustees should ensure they understand the process involved to ensure the security of members’ benefits on winding up. Key issues for trustee meetings Trustees need to make sufficient time to discuss key issues affecting their scheme. The issues that are likely to appear as regular agenda items include the following. Investment monitoring to address the appropriateness of investment strategies (particularly the default strategy) and fund choices. Trustees should periodically invite managers to attend meetings to discuss reports, evaluate market conditions and consider reasons for short-term fluctuations in performance. Scheme risks to determine whether the profile of key risks has changed. Scheme costs and charges to assess costs and charges incurred by the scheme and all scheme members. Administration to ensure the administration services provided to the scheme are of a good standard. In-house and third-party administrators should be asked to attend trustee meetings and to provide regular (for example quarterly) updates. Communications to ensure that information sent to members (both active and deferred) is accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. Legal update to raise awareness of and understand any changes in the law (including legislation, case law and ombudsman determinations) which affect DC provision. Trustee training to ensure that trustees understand relevant issues where a gap in their knowledge has been identified or as new issues emerge. Where schemes offer DB and DC benefits, it is important that trustees devote sufficient time to DC matters. It is not appropriate to tag on an important DC-related discussion at the end of a trustee meeting. Trustees should set aside enough time at meetings to address DC issues in detail. However, it may not be appropriate to have regular meetings devoted simply to AVCs where a scheme offers DB or hybrid benefits. Trustees must keep written records of meetings[12] which show the: date, time and place of the meeting names of trustees invited names of trustees (and others such as scheme advisers) who were at the meeting names of trustees who were not at the meeting decisions made date, time and place of any decisions made at the last meeting, including urgent decisions and the names of trustees who took part. Newly appointed trustees Newly appointed individual trustees have a period of six months from the date they are appointed as trustee to complete the required learning[13]. This period is designed to give new trustees time to acquire necessary knowledge and understanding. Newly appointed lay trustees should start immediately to acquire the appropriate knowledge and understanding. This should include familiarising themselves with the scheme’s trust deed, rules and relevant documents. Even a new trustee is accountable in law and must be equipped to make the decisions with which they might be faced. Therefore, trustees should consider offering pre-appointment training and requiring candidates to attain sufficient levels of knowledge and understanding before appointment. This will give them the necessary skills to undertake their role effectively straight away. Trustees should also consider arranging for experienced trustees to mentor new trustees. Newly appointed professional trustees or trustee directors have a higher duty of care[14] and should bring their experience and knowledge to the scheme upon appointment. They should have a Pensions Management Institute qualification or equivalent knowledge before they are appointed. Trustees with a specialist role Trustees who have a specialist role are expected to acquire a detailed level of knowledge to enable them to undertake their role properly. For example, where investment decisions are delegated to an investment sub-committee, the sub-committee should include members who have detailed investment knowledge. Trustees must be aware that their individual legal duties to meet the appropriate levels of knowledge and understanding are not waived when functions are delegated to a sub-committee. This remains the case even if the sub-committee has specialised expertise and has been authorised by the main board to carry out the work or make a particular decision on the board’s behalf. Reviewing and updating skills and knowledge DC quality features In a quality scheme, trustees will: regularly review their skills and competencies to demonstrate they understand their duties and are fit and proper to carry them out ensure that accountability and delegated responsibilities for all elements of running the scheme are identified, documented and understood by those involved. Legal requirements An individual must have an appropriate degree of knowledge and understanding to enable them properly to exercise their function as a trustee[15]. Trustees should keep their knowledge and understanding up to date so that it remains relevant. Practical guidance to help trustees[16] Trustees need to ensure that their level of knowledge and understanding remains appropriate throughout their term of office. This includes: ensuring that training is a regular point of discussion at trustee meetings reviewing their individual levels of knowledge and understanding at least annually to help identify and address any knowledge gaps ensuring they are suitably prepared before discussions on upcoming changes affecting the scheme where trustees may have limited experience, for example corporate activities. Trustees should ensure that, where possible, they plan ahead for training and development requirements in preparation for scheme activities that may require new skill sets. Training programme Where an assessment identifies any knowledge gaps or weaknesses which could hinder performance, these should be documented and addressed promptly in a training programme. Trustees should log all training undertaken. This will help demonstrate how they have mitigated risks associated with knowledge gaps. The training programme should cover key areas such as: setting an investment objective and strategy for the scheme’s default strategy reviewing performance against the scheme’s longer term investment strategy how to select appropriate fund options for members to choose from how to monitor adviser and service provider performance how administration of the scheme is carried out and controlled the balance of powers between the trustees and the sponsoring employer under the scheme rules decumulation issues, for example the processes leading up to retirement, flexible retirement and annuity options, understanding issues around open market options and communicating retirement options to members understanding how certain events such as a merger, closure or full or partial wind-ups will affect the scheme and what needs to be done. Trustees should make time to attend training courses and undertake independent learning to address knowledge gaps. Trustee toolkit We have developed the Trustee toolkit ( trusteetoolkit.thepensionsregulator.gov.uk ), a free online training course that addresses knowledge and understanding required by trustees. Successful completion of the Trustee toolkit can help trustees to evidence that they have the appropriate knowledge and understanding. The Trustee toolkit enables users to print out their general progress through the toolkit as well as a certificate upon successful completion. Trustees must complete the Trustee toolkit or demonstrate that they otherwise meet the requirement for appropriate knowledge and understanding. This might include a record of other educational qualifications or courses attended but whatever route is chosen the appropriate level of knowledge and understanding must be obtained within six months of being appointed[17]. Fitness and propriety Trustees need to be fit and proper to carry out their duties[18]. We expect trustees to act honestly and with integrity, competence and capability, and financial soundness. When looking at fitness and propriety we will take a number of issues into account, including: any attempt to deceive any misuse of trust funds any breaches of trust law, particularly if these are significant, persistent, deliberate or contrary to legal advice received if a trustee’s charges were to constitute a breach of trust or demonstrate a lack of internal controls if trustees persistently or seriously commit breaches of law (including pensions legislation) criminal convictions (other than those noted under section 29 of the Pensions Act 1995) so far as these are not spent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. These convictions are not limited to those involving dishonesty or deception and could involve convictions for money laundering, violence or substance abuse, for example. When employers and trustees consider applications for new trustee appointments they should consider, as part of the recruitment process, the fitness and propriety requirements of all candidates. They should also review the fitness and propriety of all appointed trustees on an ongoing basis. Footnotes for this section [5] Section 247–249 of the Pensions Act 2004. [6] Section 247(5) of the Pensions Act 2004. [7] Section 1 of the Trustee Act 2000. [8] Section 36(3) of the Pensions Act 1995. [9] Section 249A of the Pensions Act 2004. [10] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. [11] Sections 247-249 of the Pensions Act 2004. [12] Section 49 of the Pensions Act 1995 and regulation 12 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations 1996. [13] Regulation 3 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Trustees’ Knowledge and Understanding) Regulations. 2006. However, this excludes functions relating to investment where trustees must take advice from professional advisers regulated by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. [14] Section 1 of the Trustee Act 2000 (section 249A of the Pensions Act 2004 requires trustees to manage this). [15] Section 247(5) of the Pensions Act 2004. [16] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. [17] Regulation 3 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Trustees’ Knowledge and Understanding) Regulations 2006. [18] Section 3(1) of the Pensions Act 1995. In a quality scheme, trustees will: establish and maintain adequate internal controls which mitigate significant operational, financial, regulatory and compliance risks ensure that sufficient time and resources are identified and made available for maintaining the ongoing governance of the scheme. Legal requirements Trustees must establish and operate internal controls which adequately ensure that the scheme is administered and managed in accordance with the scheme rules and the requirements of the law[19]. ‘Internal controls’ are defined in the legislation as: arrangements and procedures to be followed in the administration and management of the scheme systems and arrangements for monitoring that administration and management arrangements and procedures to be followed for the safe custody and security of the assets of the scheme. If trustees persistently fail to put in place adequate internal controls, this may cause an administrative breach, maladministration or, in more extreme cases, result in the reduction or loss of scheme assets. Where the effect and wider implication of not having in place adequate internal controls are likely to be materially significant, we expect to receive a whistleblowing report that outlines information relating to the breach[20]. Practical guidance to help trustees[21] Trustees must identify, evaluate and manage the risks that relate to their scheme[22]. Stage 1: Identifying risks Trustees must identify the risks that are critical to the scheme and which are likely to have a material impact on the scheme’s ability to provide member benefits if they are not managed effectively. Trustees should consider information drawn from a number of sources to help identify risks present in their scheme. This includes internal audit reports, service contracts, complaints, administration reports and external audit reporting. Areas of risk that are likely to have a significant impact on an occupational DC trust-based pension scheme include: fraud (including pension liberation fraud) and the importance of independent oversight investment corporate activity relevant to the scheme retirement and members’ decumulation options. Once trustees have identified risk areas they should record them in a risk register. Recording risks helps to formalise risk management procedures and provides trustees with a central reference point for future trustee meetings. Stage 2: Evaluating risks Not all risks will have the same potential impact or the same likelihood of materialising. Trustees need to look at both these areas and assess which risks the scheme can absorb without the need to take further action, and which risks require adequate internal controls to reduce their incidence and impact. Trustees must therefore develop a process for evaluating risks and consider the impact that risks may, or will, have on scheme operations and assess the probability of a risk materialising. The evaluation process must reflect the effectiveness of controls against suitable success criteria. It should consider the impact and likelihood of a risk occurring. The basis upon which trustees measure the impact of risks may vary. However, the model below describes one simple approach trustees could use to evaluate risks. This measures the likelihood of risks occurring against the impact on the scheme. In this model the classification of risk – for example red, amber or green – dictates the extent to which trustees need to take mitigating action. It is dependent upon a number of factors, including judgement. A risk categorised as red requires immediate attention as it represents a significant threat to the scheme. Where possible, these risks should be avoided altogether. This is one approach trustees could use to evaluate risks. There are other risk assessment models which trustees might use that are just as effective. Whichever model the trustees choose, the evaluation process should help trustees to direct resources to priority areas. It is important that trustees address all risks in a sensible order of priority, starting with those which will have the greatest impact on their scheme. Stage 3: Managing risk Simply recording and evaluating risk does not mean that risks are being managed. As part of the management and decision-making process, trustees must ensure that controls are suitably designed and implemented to enable them to take appropriate action. Trustees should consider a number of issues including those in the following table. How the control is performed and the skills of the person performing the control. For example, master trusts may have a large number of employers with limited experience of pension scheme administration. Trustees of master trust schemes should ensure that employers receive clear instructions addressing information requirements and support to help manage the risk of transmitting poor quality data. The level of reliance that can be placed on information technology (IT) solutions if processes are automated. For example, if administration services are provided using an automated system, external auditors could audit the system on an annual basis on behalf of the trustees and should audit if any issues are identified. Whether or not a control would stop something from happening or merely detect something that has already happened. For example, it is not possible to prevent a significant fall in global markets. However, an investment subcommittee should ensure that the main trustee board is informed enough to make a particular decision or recommendation to the main board for quick approval (subject to taking appropriate investment advice). The frequency and timeliness of a control process. For example, trustees who find their data is incomplete should undertake data-cleansing or member-tracing exercises and review this on a regular basis (at least annually). The process or reporting mechanism for flagging errors or control failures. For example, if trustees identify that member communications are poor quality, they should ensure that they are reviewed and, if necessary, redrafted. Stage 4: Effective monitoring of risk management controls Risk management is an ongoing process. Trustees must continually review exposure to new and emerging risks, including significant changes in or affecting the scheme. Establishing effective internal controls relating to risk management is not a one-off exercise. Trustees should review the risk register in detail at least annually and evaluate their risk assessment arrangements, procedures and systems for material changes. They should record these changes (usually on the risk register itself) with any agreed actions to mitigate the risk. Footnotes for this section [19] Section 249A of the Pensions Act 2004. [20] Section 70 of the Pensions Act 2004. [21] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. [22] Section 249A of the Pensions Act 2004. setting investment objectives and a default strategy security and liquidity of scheme assets monitoring and reviewing the default strategy reviewing investment fund performance investment decision-making and trustee knowledge acting in the best interests of members and beneficiaries. Setting investment objectives and a default strategy DC quality features In a quality scheme, trustees will: ensure that investment objectives for each investment option are identified and documented in order for them to be regularly monitored ensure that the number and risk profile of investment options offered reflects the needs of the membership ensure that a default strategy is provided which is suitable for the needs of the membership act in the best interests of all beneficiaries. Legal requirements Trustees of most schemes are responsible for deciding the investment objectives and strategy adopted by the scheme. Only trustees of fully insured schemes do not need to make this decision. Trustees have a very wide power to invest scheme assets. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the scheme rules, trustees have the same power to make investments of any kind as if they were absolutely entitled to the assets of the scheme[23]. Trustees need to consider the interests of both active and deferred members in a scheme when they make decisions relating to investment options. Schemes which are not fully insured must also draw up a written statement of investment principles[24]. This statement sets out the trustees’ investment objectives for their scheme and the principles governing how decisions about investments must be made. A statement of investment principles should include the trustees’ policy on the following issues: setting the investment objective and defining, monitoring and reviewing the default strategy monitoring and reviewing all investments and investment funds in which the scheme assets are invested choosing investments and investment funds, and the balance between different kinds of investment and investment funds risk, including how risk is to be measured and managed, and the expected return on investments realising investments the extent to which the trustees take account of social, environmental or ethical considerations when taking investment decisions using the rights (including voting rights) attached to investments (if the trustees have them). Trustees must review the statement of investment principles regularly – including whenever there has been a significant change in investment policy[25]. Trustees have a statutory duty to consult with the employer about the scheme’s statement of investment principles[26]. Practical guidance to help trustees[27] Understanding trustees’ power to invest Trustees are responsible for investment governance and must be familiar with and understand the scope of the power of investment that is described in their scheme rules[28]. Trustees should use their scheme rules to identify investment powers they may delegate. They should consider whether it is sensible to establish an investment sub-committee. If they do, the trustees should document the delegation of any investment powers in an investment governance plan or as part of the statement of investment principles. Trustees should be clear that they are responsible for setting and monitoring the default strategy, and for ensuring the long-term suitability of the funds underlying the default strategy. However, in relation to the range of individual funds available for members to choose to invest in, it is the members who set their strategy and the responsibility of the trustees is limited to ensuring that the funds offered perform in line with the manager’s stated objectives. Setting a default strategy A default strategy (made up of one or more investment funds) will be selected automatically for a member joining the scheme, unless the member chooses to set their own strategy and chooses funds themselves from those made available by the trustees. Some schemes offer a range of pre-set, risk-rated strategies for members to choose from, although one of these will usually be set as the default strategy for members who fail to make a selection. Schemes used for automatic enrolment must offer a default strategy[29] as new joiners must not be asked to make a choice or provide information in order to become an active member of a qualifying scheme. Trustees of all occupational DC trust-based pension schemes have a duty to exercise their powers in the interests of members and beneficiaries[30]. With the exception of AVC investments (where default strategies are rarely offered), and where they have determined this is appropriate, trustees should provide a suitable default strategy even where a scheme is not being used for automatic enrolment. The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) has issued guidance[31] on offering a default strategy for DC automatic enrolment pension schemes. This is intended to support existing legislation. Using a high-level, principles-based approach, it covers governance, design, review, monitoring and communication of the default strategy. Trustees should allow suitable time to design the default strategy and ensure that the membership data on which the default strategy is based is accurate. What is a suitable default strategy will vary from scheme to scheme depending on the needs and demographic profile of the membership. Trustees should take care to understand and monitor the member-borne costs of the default strategy. For example, trustees should consider an appropriate balance between the frequency of rebalancing, which incurs trading costs, and the efficient delivery of the long-term strategy objective. They should seek to achieve equity between active and deferred member-borne costs and charges and to satisfy themselves that all costs are competitive. Depending on the type of default strategy selected, execution of some key components may need to be delegated to a third party. For example, in a ‘lifestyle’ strategy, switches between the funds underlying the strategy will usually be carried out mechanically by the scheme administrator. In such circumstances, trustees should satisfy themselves that the third party has the capability and is suitably qualified to execute the trustees’ requirements competently. Trustees may also delegate some investment decisions in relation to the default strategy to an investment manager. For example, in a target maturity fund, a manager may be given discretion over the timing of changes in the mix of assets within the fund in order to mitigate member-borne risks in the run up to retirement. In such circumstances, trustees need to satisfy themselves that the investment manager is appropriately qualified to manage such a fund. Trustees should satisfy themselves that their advisers are suitably qualified and capable of giving clear and practical advice. This will enable the trustee board to fully understand the options open to them in setting a default strategy and in delegating functions as necessary to ensure the effectiveness of their strategy. Trustees will need to be clear about what they are delegating and how they will monitor the effectiveness of delegated functions. Trustees are not responsible for any act or default of any fund manager in the exercise of any relevant delegated discretion about investments as long as they have made sure that they have taken all reasonable steps to satisfy themselves that the fund managers: have the appropriate knowledge and experience to manage the scheme investments carry out their work competently and in line with the trustees’ policy for choosing investments[32]. Selecting investment funds Trustees need to select investment funds for the default strategy and, if appropriate for the scheme membership, further investment fund options for members who may wish to set their own strategy. Trustees should devote sufficient time and resources to the following: Understand the objective of each investment fund. In particular trustees should understand the: asset classes being invested in, for example equities and fixed interest level of risk both in the strategy for each fund and in the underlying investments, for example levels of volatility for each asset class objective and investment style of the investment manager, for example to replicate or outperform an index and the net of expenses target return, for example to match a cash or inflation benchmark. Understand the basis upon which the total level of costs and charges is calculated and levied on the fund, for example the extent of annual management charges and other ongoing costs and charges which impact on the value of member accounts. Ensure the above information is documented so that it can be used to assess the performance of the funds is in line with objectives and continues to remain suitable for members. Ensure that the fund information provided to members and the employer is accurate and reflects the risk rating and investment objectives of the funds. Whilst trustees will want to ensure that members have the information that they require to make informed decisions, trustees should be careful not to give advice to members. Ensure that the number and risk profile of investment funds offered as an alternative to the default strategy reflects the needs of the membership. When considering the nature of investment choices available to members, trustees should ensure that investments are suitably labelled so members understand the risk profile of investment options. As with the design of the default strategy, trustees should retain appropriately qualified advisers who can provide them with professional advice and assistance. Trustees should also ensure that they, or their advisers, obtain sufficient information from their investment managers to be satisfied that they can demonstrate that they have understood all the above matters and have factored them into their solution and their range of funds. Where a scheme’s rules allow trustees to delegate investment decisions to an investment sub-committee, this can ensure that sufficient time and focus is given to particularly important and complex investment issues. However, all trustees (not just those on the relevant sub-committee) still remain responsible for all decisions made and actions taken by sub-committees. The investment considerations of a member with a DB pension, supported by AVCs, may be different from a member who is relying solely on a DC pension. Trustees should take a pragmatic approach in these situations. Security and liquidity of scheme assets DC quality features In a quality scheme, trustees will: predominantly invest in assets admitted to trading on regulated markets. Where unregulated investment options are offered, it must be demonstrable why it was appropriate to offer those investment options understand the levels of financial protection available to members and carefully consider situations where compensation is not available understand and put arrangements in place to mitigate the impact to members of business and/or commercial risks act in the best interests of all beneficiaries. Legal requirements Trustees must exercise their investment powers in a way which ensures the security, quality, liquidity and profitability of the portfolio as a whole[33]. The regulations cover a range of issues together. The section below focuses on the security and liquidity of the portfolio as a whole. Trustees must make sure that the scheme assets are invested predominantly in regulated markets[34]. Practical guidance to help trustees[35] Trustees must give due consideration to asset protection and understand what would happen in the event of a problem[36]. This is a complex area and trustees may need to seek independent advice to determine the extent to which, if at all, situations exist in which any loss caused by misfeasance in relation to the scheme’s assets, or due to insolvency or default, might be covered by a compensation scheme or indemnity insurance. For example, trustees should establish whether contractual arrangements with investment platform providers include an indemnity clause in the event of default. Trustees should understand the protection relating to assets held overseas either directly or through an investment fund. It may not always be possible to obtain an appropriate and enforceable financial guarantee, particularly in the context of pooled mandates. If no guarantee is available, trustees should consider the extent to which (if any) compensation arrangements and other methods of recourse are available to them if an investment provider defaults and scheme assets are lost or dissipated (other than through exposure to market risk in accordance with the set investment mandates of the fund). Trustees need to understand the characteristics of complex investment instruments and investment strategies. They should put arrangements in place to ensure that members are suitably safeguarded against loss or misappropriation of assets. They should also consider such things as counterparty risk and the creditworthiness of institutions which hold the scheme’s or a particular investment fund’s cash positions. Trustees should ensure that the levels and nature of financial protection or compensation available to members is clearly communicated to members and employers. When protection changes, this should also be communicated. Trustees should establish whether: the investment funds and products offered to members are regulated, for example by the Financial Conduct Authority or similar regulatory authority in the case of overseas jurisdictions the investment funds and products qualify for protection and compensation, for example under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme members would qualify for protection and have a claim as a result of the trustee(s) being an eligible claimant. Trustees should make sure that this information is communicated to members. If trustees decide to offer investments or products which are not regulated by a relevant body they should: undertake additional due diligence checks on the investment to understand the regulation, compensation arrangements, governance and controls in place, and the risk factors to which members will be exposed document why they have chosen these investments and why they are suitable for the membership. Where the trustees consider that adequate protection does not exist they should consider how appropriate it is to hold the asset. If they decide to retain it, trustees should consider what mitigation they can put in place, for example insurance, financial guarantees or changes to contractual terms. Trustees should consider the liquidity of assets held in the funds underpinning the default strategy and other funds offered to members. When a fund holds illiquid assets, it may be necessary for the fund to restrict dealing frequency. This needs to be taken into account as it may result in delays in investing contributions or rebalancing the default strategy. The out-of-market risk (ie the risk that the member faces of not having market exposure for a period of time) and the risk of being imbalanced to target as the result of such delays needs to be balanced carefully with the potential investment return premium to be gained from holding illiquid assets. Footnotes for this section [23] Section 35(1) of the Pensions Act 1995. [24] Section 35 of the Pensions Act 1995 and regulation 2 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [25] Regulation 2(1) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [26] Regulation 2(2)(b) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [27] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. [28] Sections 247–249 of the Pensions Act 2004. [29] Section 17(2) of the Pensions Act 2008. [30] Regulation 4(2) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [32] Section 34(4) of the Pensions Act 1995. [33] Regulation 2(3) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [34] Regulation 4(5) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [35] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. [36] Regulation 4(7) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. Monitoring and reviewing the default strategy DC quality features In a quality scheme, trustees will: monitor the ongoing suitability of the default strategy for the membership. Legal requirements Trustees must regularly monitor and review their scheme’s investment strategy[37]. Practical guidance to help trustees[38] Trustees should take time to monitor and review the appropriateness of the default strategy. Certain events may trigger a review of the default strategy such as: a merger with another organisation which results in a change in the demographics of the scheme membership a change in ownership or personnel of the investment managers sustained changes in market conditions. When reviewing and monitoring the default strategy, trustees should consider its suitability taking into account innovations in DC investment products, changes in regulatory requirements, the demographics of the scheme membership and innovations in the decumulation market. The review should take into account the needs of both active and deferred members. Investment and risk monitoring may help trustees to identify other potential risks. This analysis, coupled with demographic reports, helps trustees to decide whether the risk and maturity profile of the scheme membership is adequately addressed by the default strategy. Reviewing investment fund performance In a quality scheme, trustees will: ensure that arrangements are established to review the ongoing appropriateness of investment options ensure that the performance of each investment option, including the default strategy, is regularly assessed against stated investment objectives monitor the ongoing suitability of the default strategy for the membership. Legal requirements Trustees must regularly monitor and review the investment options that members can choose from and update their statement of investment principles accordingly[39]. Practical guidance to help trustees[40] It is important that trustees monitor and review investment performance both for their default strategy’s underlying investment funds and for other investment funds they make available for members who set their own strategy. Fund performance review triggers Trustees should build flexibility into the review and assessment arrangements. The size and value of each investment fund should be a factor in considering the nature and frequency of review. Trustees should pay particular and more frequent attention to investment funds that hold a significant proportion of scheme members’ assets, for example the investment funds which underpin the default strategy. The types of investment funds selected by members may also trigger a review. For example, trustees may decide to select a higher-risk investment fund to review on the basis that it is more volatile, regardless of the fact that it is likely to represent a smaller element of members’ portfolios. Trustees may consider setting mechanical triggers based upon the performance of investment funds against their benchmarks but these triggers need to be appropriate to the type of fund and its objective. For example, an index-tracking fund may merit triggers which are configured tightly around the index return. However, an actively managed fund holding volatile assets may merit triggers configured more loosely around its long-term performance objective. In all cases, trustees should set triggers which are appropriate to the long-term nature of pension scheme investments and should not take decisions based upon short-term performance. Form of review The review may take different forms, for example based on manager or adviser reports, or involve meetings with the managers or advisers. When reviewing and monitoring fund performance, trustees should: assess the performance of each investment fund against stated performance objectives compare investment returns to industry benchmarks consider the impact of fees on the investment return as it is the net return which members receive: the level of fees should be checked against appropriate market comparators to ensure they remain competitive monitor the levels of portfolio turnover and consider whether these are justifiable in light of investment objectives and whether this results in unnecessary costs for members ensure that controls (including those related to the security, liquidity and safe custody of scheme assets) are in place to alert them to potential risks regularly assess the effectiveness of the investment decision-making and governance process, make improvements to the process as appropriate and report to interested parties (including members). Changing investment funds Where trustees decide to make a change of investment funds or investment manager, they must consider the transition options available and decide which is most suitable for the scheme[41]. They should ensure that there are controls around the transfer process to mitigate out-of-market risks and transition costs. Some common mitigations include: in specie transfers where the assets are simply reregistered rather than traded pre-funding which crystallises the cost of transfer and creates certainty undertaking phased selling to reduce volatility ensuring that the transfer of investments and cash between the parties is reconciled after transition. Trustees should consider if any guarantees or other favourable treatment might be lost on transition and if there are any penalties which will be triggered. Members should be informed in advance of the transfer so they can switch to a different fund if they do not want their investments to be automatically moved to the new fund. Most transitions will also result in a black-out period when members will be unable to view or alter their accounts and this should be communicated to members. However, member communications should not delay a transfer that needs to happen urgently to protect member investments, for example due to a risk of provider insolvency. In those circumstances, communications should happen as soon as practicable after the transition. Documenting reviews of investment strategy and fund performance Trustees should document the arrangements for all reviews of the default strategy and investment fund options. This should include factors considered, decisions made and actions taken. If the trustees conclude that it would be inappropriate to make any changes suggested by the review, they should fully document the reasons for not making those changes. Investment decision-making and trustee knowledge DC quality features In a quality scheme, trustees will: understand their duties and be fit and proper to carry them out establish and maintain procedures and controls to ensure the effectiveness and performance of the services offered by scheme advisers and service providers. Legal requirements Investment decisions must be taken in the light of appropriate advice from professional advisers such as the scheme’s investment consultants[42]. Practical guidance to help trustees[43] Trustees’ own knowledge Trustees must have a good working knowledge of investment matters relating to their scheme[44]. As a starting point, trustees should understand the characteristics of the asset classes, the key differences between those asset classes, their volatility and risks. They should also understand the nature of the investment products through which the scheme gains exposure to assets, for example whether the funds are constituted as life funds or open ended investment companies. Acting in the best interests of members and beneficiaries DC quality features In a quality scheme, trustees will: act in the best interests of all beneficiaries. Legal requirements Trustees must exercise their investment powers in the interests of members and beneficiaries[45]. They also have a more general duty to act in the best interests of beneficiaries. In acting in the best interests of members and beneficiaries, trustees should take financial interests into account. They must also set out in their statement of investment principles the extent (if at all) to which they have considered issues such as socially responsible investment (for example social, environmental and governance factors) that may affect the long-term performance of investments[46]. If trustees face a potential conflict of interest, they must invest the assets in the sole interests of members and beneficiaries[47]. Where a conflict exists, the trustees should be able to demonstrate that they effectively manage the conflict. They should take appropriate advice and make a reasonable and prudent decision based on the information available at the time. Practical guidance to help trustees[48] When considering the suitability of investments, trustees should take into account environmental and social factors which may impact on longer term returns. When determining whether or not the investment options are socially responsible, trustees may also want to give consideration to ethical issues which may impact on their beneficiaries. Trustees need to be confident that outsourcing stewardship functions is carried out with the best interests of beneficiaries in mind. While primarily an issue for schemes investing in equity holdings (for example UK listed companies), trustees may want to determine whether a stewardship approach is appropriate for other asset classes. For example, trustees may want to determine whether and how investment managers are exercising ownership rights. This includes monitoring and engaging with companies on matters such as strategy, performance, risk, capital structure and corporate governance. More information on quality engagement between institutional investors and investee companies is available in the UK Stewardship Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council[49]. Footnotes for this section [37] Section 35(1) of the Pensions Act 1995. [38] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. [39] Section 35(1) of the Pensions Act 1995. [40] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. [41] Section 36(3) of the Pensions Act 1995. [42] Section 36(3) of the Pensions Act 1995. [43] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. [44] Section 247-249 of the Pensions Act 2004. [45] Regulation 4(2) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [46] Regulation 2(3) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [47] Regulation 4(2)(b) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005. [48] Each core section includes practical guidance to help trustees to discharge their legal duties. We recognise that there may be alternative and justifiable actions or approaches trustees may wish to adopt. 
file_571.txt|Director overview Director of Railway Safety's overview We have always been clear that health and safety on all of Britain's railways is its absolute priority and this has been reflected in our Control Period 5 (2014-19) draft determination for Network Rail published on 12 June 2013: financial efficiencies must not come at the expense of safety. Key overall messages Britain's mainline railway remains amongst one of the safest in the European Union (EU) in terms of the number of unsafe events that have happened, and is the best in the EU at managing risks to passengers and at level crossings; London Underground Limited (LUL) again achieved zero workforce and passenger fatalities, with a 2.7% risk reduction across its network; a notable 6.4% reduction in the overall mainline system safety risk, as a result of fewer fatalities to members of the public on the mainline railway; encouraging signs that mainline train operators are managing occupational health better, but Network Rail's occupational health management still needs further improvement over the next four to five years; overall mainline workforce safety continues to improve, the exception being an 8% worsening in track worker safety in 2012-13, primarily because of slips, trips and falls and contact with objects incidents. It's now 19-years since an LUL employee was killed at work. Track worker safety will remain  a key focus of our inspection work; a disappointing and significant increase (34% since December 2011) in potential passenger train accident risk as a result of weather-caused structural failures in 2012; total accident risk in 2012-13 was at its highest level since 2009-10. Improving Network Rail's asset management is a specific focus  of our CP5 draft determination; a 7% increase in normalised passenger risk due to slips, trips and falls at stations, and four tragic passenger fatalities at stations; none were industry-caused. We continue to ensure duty holders review their approach to station safety; and there was evidence of potential resource gaps in Network Rail's maintenance depots leading to an over-reliance on reactive, rather than planned preventative, maintenance. We continue to monitor infrastructure asset performance closely. Despite the good recent safety record, we cannot be complacent because it is clear from the evidence in this report that there remain weaknesses in how health and safety risks are managed across the sector. I can reassure you that, in our role as regulator, we will continue to push and support railway duty holders to ensure that the industry focuses on improving health and safety management and risk control. Where necessary, we use our regulatory tools to ensure those responsible follow the law. In 2012-13, we served fewer enforcement notices than in 2011-12, but brought a higher than usual number of prosecutions – see annex 1. We want and expect the industry to improve its own health and safety assurance processes. Looking forward, if the industry's management of risk moves towards excellence, I expect the number of enforcement notices and prosecutions to decline, or at least be focused on more complex aspects of risk control. Briefly looking ahead to the start of Control Period 5 (2014-19), we have made a point of largely protecting Network Rail's proposed maintenance expenditure in our draft determination; we have deliberately delayed the phasing in of some of Network Rail's efficiency proposals because we did not think they could be achieved safely, efficiently and sustainably. We have provided significantly more (£400m) funding in CP5 then in CP4 to enable Network Rail to improve the condition of its civil structure assets, such as earthworks, drainage, bridges and tunnels. We have considered carefully and supported Network Rail's proposals for specific additional funding to: improve how workers take electrical isolations on AC and DC systems; improve the safety design of road-rail vehicles; develop alerts to warn track workers of approaching trains; and reduce level crossing risk. Network Rail's objective of 'everyone home safe everyday' is welcome, but the whole industry has some way to go to achieve this. It is with regret that I remember the avoidable deaths of a volunteer guard on a heritage line and two mainline track workers while on duty last year: one was struck by a train, an incident which is under investigation, and one died in a road accident. This was the second rail worker to die in a road traffic accident in two years. The rail industry should review its arrangements for managing risks, including fatigue, associated with driving at work and the decisions managers take to help manage those risks . Some other encouraging highlights: Network Rail is on-target to meet its 25% reduction in level crossing risk over Control Period 4 (CP4) 2009-14, as measured by its own model; the successful delivery of a safe 2012 UK Olympics and Paralympics as a result of industry co-ordination, which included a record-breaking number of passengers were carried; with scope to build a post-Olympic legacy based on the coordination of a best practice approach to risk management; operators' management systems to address low adhesion issues were found to be generally fit-for-purpose, with improved sanding arrangements in place; we found evidence of improvement in the suitability of individual operators' risk assessments for evaluating Train Protection Warning System (TPWS) failures and weaknesses; a notable 10% reduction in platform-train interface (PTI) risk following a strong cross-industry focus after increases in risks and incidents since 2009-10, but further improvements are necessary; and improved safety standards and safety management arrangements on heritage lines after a rise in the need for enforcement action in 2011-12; further work remains and we aim to ensure the pace of improvement is maintained. We served three enforcement notices in the heritage sector in 2012-13, a marked  improvement on the 11-notices served in 2011-12. Other areas of concern: long-term SPAD risk continues to decline over time, but we saw a significant 87% increase in underlying SPAD risk in 2012-13 compared to 2011-12; this was mostly because of an increase in higher risk SPADs at lower risk signals not fitted with a train protection system; there has been a long-term trend of decreasing risk at level crossing, but despite this improvement, nine members of the public died on crossings in 2012-13: four pedestrians and five vehicle users. Level crossing risk increased by 7% in 2012-13, mostly because of misuse by level crossing users; and the regrettable high-level of rail suicides continued with 238 incidents in both 2011-12 and 2012-13. This is a sensitive area and we recognise the strong collaborative lead Network Rail has taken with other industry duty holders to seek ways to prevent suicide, including working with the Samaritans  and training its station staff, who now intervene in about 30-incidents a month. The increase in mainline passenger risk in 2012-13 showed the limitations of the current Precursor Indicator Model; it is unable to help predict the susceptibility of civil structure failures caused by adverse but foreseeable weather. Building on the independent review I commissioned in 2011-12, we will continue to work with the Rail Safety and Standards Board and LUL to develop their safety risk models so that they provide a fully predictive picture of risk on our key railways. Improved outputs from safety risk models will help the industry and ORR set its strategic priorities. We expect modelling techniques to be kept under review and improved at every opportunity. I look forward to the mainline industry being able to benefit from the use of the disaggregated safety data to benchmark performance, identify and learn from good risk management and any associated cost reduction efficiencies, at regional and route levels. We continue to respond to issues raised by rail trade unions and routinely meet with their representatives at different levels throughout the year. I continue to value the health and safety insight and perspective they provide to us. In summary, I saw a number of positive indicators from across the sector in 2012-13, demonstrating that the industry as a whole continues to improve. However, we will not allow the industry to become complacent, or become complacent ourselves, because as this report illustrates, there remain underlying weaknesses in the industry's safety management systems and risk controls. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_769.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_71.txt|Ensuring robust systems and processes Key points You need to have an in-depth understanding of the scheme structure so that you can advise on how to manage potential risks. Ensure there are robust systems and processes in place to separately identify and manage the assets attributable to each type of benefit. Types of hybrid scheme Hybrid schemes include a combination of DB and DC benefits. Examples include: separate DB and DC sections under one trust DB scheme with a DC underpin, eg a scheme that will pay a member the better of their DB or DC benefit DC scheme with a contracted out element on a DB basis DB schemes with a DC top-up. Back to top Potential risks to members To advise on how to manage a hybrid scheme you need to have an in-depth understanding of the scheme structure and the benefits the scheme offers. If you do not understand and don’t advise your client how to manage the scheme appropriately, members will face a number of potential risks: lack of governance unclear and incorrect member communication incorrect benefits and funding levels inappropriate investment strategies Back to top Checking the status of money purchase benefits The statutory definition of money purchase benefits changed with effect from 24 July 2014. Schemes may be affected by this change if they offer benefits that have the potential to develop a funding deficit, ie non-money purchase benefits. You may be asked by clients to provide advice on how the changes affect their scheme. For more information on the amendments, see our statement on changes to the definition of a money purchase benefit: Statement Changes to the definition of money purchase benefits (PDF, 69kb, 5 pages) Published: July 2014 Back to top Ensuring robust systems and processes You need to advise your clients to exercise good governance over the scheme by having robust systems and processes in place. This will ensure they can separately identify the assets attributable to each type of benefit. Where you undertake services outsourced by your client you should also have robust systems and processes in place. If you are a scheme administrator you should carry out the following actions. Use separate bank accounts for DB and DC monies to avoid mixing assets. Provide information to trustees that shows the DC assets are identifiable at all times. Report regularly on the robustness of systems and processes to ensure that DC assets are separately identifiable. Ensure member communications clearly state the different benefits held for members, including what happens in the event of a scheme wind-up. Provide reports on regular reconciliation of DC and DB assets carried out and cash flow statements, detailing movement of monies at a DC member level. Offer the open market option and statutory money purchase illustration to members with DC entitlements in line with legal requirements. Ensure individual member data accurately reflects and separates DB and DC entitlements. If you are an employee benefit consultant or other adviser you should carry out the following actions. Ensure advice to trustees on hybrid structures states the advantages and disadvantages of such schemes and considers the employer’s future growth strategies. Offer appropriate investment choices to DC members that consider the member population’s risk appetite. Where the same investment funds are used for DB and DC members, the approach should be justified and there should be clear segregation of assets. Ensure advice to trustees and employers states the winding up strategies for hybrid schemes, their complexities and the different safeguards (including Pension Protection Fund) offered to DB and DC members. In general, you must manage the DB elements of hybrid schemes as if they were a DB scheme and manage the DC elements as if they were a DC scheme. Go to the sections on DB scheme management and DC scheme management . 
file_368.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_379.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_80.txt|Terms and conditions Register and log in to The Pensions Regulator Welcome to The Pensions Regulator's online service, where you can share      scheme information with us, notify us and make levy payments for example: Registering new pension schemes Setting up a direct debit to pay your levy Submitting a recovery plan. Submitting late payment of contributions reports. If you've previously registered with us, then simply log in using the email      address and password you used to register. If you haven’t yet registered, then select ‘register now’. You can't register for automatic enrolment using Exchange - go to declaration of compliance . What's available? Share important scheme information with us – scheme registration, scheme return       and more Maintaining contributions Report late payments of contributions from employers to your defined contribution pension scheme(s) Already registered? 
file_536.txt|Impact of ROGS Impact of ROGS This page contains findings from independent research on the impact of Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS) on the rail industry. Noble Denton Associates carried out a baseline survey in 2007 on the performance and impact of ROGS as part of a three-year monitoring and evaluation exercise. Further surveys were carried out in 2008 and early in 2009. The final survey was undertaken at the end of 2009. The report of the final survey pdf icon PDF, 1,262 Kb provides a good indication that the original objectives of ROGS have been met with some ongoing work needed to improve safety verification processes and fatigue management. We therefore have confidence that the legislation is helping to maintain national standards of rail safety in line with EU requirements and we are striving for continuous improvement. The original ROGS objectives were: Objective 1: (a) Transferring the mainline (this transfer included some non-mainline operations e.g. London Underground) railway industry from a system of railway safety cases to a system of safety certification and authorisation; and (b) Ensuring the UK can respond to common safety targets in future; Objective 2: (a) Reduce the number of railway operators that have to seek formal permission to work on the railway; (b) Producing a minimum set of requirements for a SMS so that safety certification is more streamlined and better targeted, less bureaucratic and quicker for duty holders; and (c) Redirecting inspection towards checking on the ground that operators are controlling their operational risks. Objective 3: (a) Transport operators and infrastructure managers working together to ensure system safety; and (b) operators identifying appropriate forms of cooperation that complement the measures they are taking to comply with their own safety duties; Objective 4: (a) Removal of the existing requirement on the non-mainline railway for formal approval by the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) before introducing new or altered works, plant or equipment; and (b) Replacing this requirement so that duty holders obtain safety verification from an independent competent person (ICP). Objective 5: (a) Changing the definition of safety critical work from broad titles to actual work; (b) Safety critical tasks must be carried out by a person assessed as being competent and fit for work; (c) Remove the requirement for safety critical workers to carry a formal means of identification; and (d) Require a change in approach from simply controlling the number of hours for preventing fatigue to one of requiring arrangements to be implemented that control risks such as the pattern of working hours and roster design. The report confirmed that objectives 1, 3 and 4 had been fully met and also indicated that Objective 2 (b) and 2(c) are on their way to being met. The changes made by ROGS ensured Objectives 2(a) and 5(c) were met. Objective 5(d) has yet to be met. The overall key findings of the final survey were as follows: 90% of organisations believe that changes made as a result of ROGS are having a positive or neutral impact on their business. In addition, 70% agreed that the standards of safety had remained the same under ROGS and 43% of respondents believed ROGS had changed the way safety is managed. The majority of respondents indicated safety verification, safety certification and safety authorisation had not changed safety standards, consistent with previous year's findings. The number of people thinking that more could be done to reduce the administrative burden of ROGS has steadily decreased over the four surveys. The safety culture findings were generally positive; the only area that did not score so favourably was in relation to the reporting of near misses. All respondents who asked ORR for help in 2009 received help. 92% of organisations described the help they received from ORR as either 'good' or 'excellent'. 'identifying/appointing an ICP and 'knowing when to apply safety verification' were the most common challenges mentioned by respondents. Market study ORR also carried out a research market study to: assess whether the requirement to obtain safety authorisation or certification could be a barrier to entry into Great Britain's market(s) for the provision of mainline passenger and freight transport following the implementation of ROGS; and recommend any steps we could take to further reduce any safety barriers that may exist, including, for example, amending our own approach, improving access to information about how to obtain authorisation or certification or other actions. Our findings support the conclusion that ROGS implementation in GB has been successful in speeding up the accreditation process and streamlining requirements across member states while maintaining and improving health and safety standards. We found no evidence to suggest that obtaining new certification and/or authorisation is a barrier to entry but on the contrary we found that ROGS appears to improve the conditions of entry, consistent with the aims of facilitating an open market for rail transport. Further information 
file_906.txt|Archived SRA rail trends publications Archived SRA rail trends publications The following documents relating to National Rail Trends were handed over to us when the Strategic Rail Authority ceased to exist. 
file_721.txt|Access to HS1 Access to HS1 We approve all new framework agreements and revisions to existing framework agreements (track access contracts covering the reservation of capacity for more than one timetable period of six months). These are the documents which allow access to the High Speed 1 (HS1) network. We also have an appeal role in respect of the terms of track access and more generally under The Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 . Any potential operator on HS1 is more than welcome to approach us for an introductory meeting, if it so wishes. Criteria and procedures We have criteria and procedures that we expect to follow when considering track access applications for HS1 . Read more about these criteria and procedures Application forms and template access contracts There are standard application forms and template track access contracts which should be used when making track access applications for HS1. High Speed 1 track access applications, decisions and consolidated agreements This section contains all HS1 track access application consultations, decisions and consolidated agreements. The High Speed 1 Network Code The HS1 Network Code is a set of rules for the day-to-day running of the HS1 network. Read more about the HS1 Network Code High Speed 1 access dispute resolution and appeals HS1 has published access dispute resolution rules, designed to provide a clear and efficient structure for dealing with disputes which arise under access contracts. 
file_901.txt|Background to complaints data Background to complaints data In 2010, following an agreement with DfT, we took responsibility for collecting the complaints data directly from the train operating companies (TOCs). Some of the benefits of the change in process were: We received the data on a more frequent basis so were able to carry out more quality assurance on the data. We were able to identify any data quality issues earlier in the process and liaise directly with TOCs to clarify these rather than contact them through DfT. We provided TOCs with guidelines on how complaints data should be collected and processed, ensuring any methodological inconsistencies between TOCs were addressed. We were aware of any delays in the data supply chain and could contact TOCs directly to ensure data would be delivered and there would be no delay to the publication of the National Rail Trends (NRT) official statistics. In addition, as part of this transfer, we agreed to be responsible for undertaking a project with the aim of improving the quality of complaints statistics we publish. We are actively working with the TOCs to achieve this through focus groups with the data producers and visits to TOCs to get a better understanding of their systems and processes. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_349.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_639.txt|This section includes guidance on station safety and crowding on trains. Station safety Read more about station safety Crowding on trains An explanation of our role in regulating health and safety aspects of passenger crowding, and how train operator crowding levels are monitored and managed. 
file_549.txt|European railway safety legislation European railway safety legislation This page sets out the railway safety legislation that applies across the European Union either directly or by implementation through national laws and administrative arrangements. The Railway Safety Directive The objective of the Railway Safety Directive 2004/49/EC (as amended) is to create a common European regulatory framework for safety, in particular, the maintenance of safety management systems (SMS). It is intended that a common approach will help to break down barriers to the establishment of international transport operations and help create a single market for rail transport services in Europe. The introduction of a certification scheme for entities in charge of maintenance (ECM) of freight wagons aims to improve the competitiveness of the freight sector in the UK and across the EU by reducing the administrative costs associated with establishing freight wagon safety.The purpose of the Railway Safety Directive is to: harmonise railway safety regulatory structures across Europe; define responsibilities between various players (operators, infrastructure, national safety authorities, ECMs, etc); develop common safety targets and common safety methods (developed by a European Commission agency called the European Railway Agency (ERA); establish safety authorities and accident investigation bodies; and define common principles for the management, regulation and supervision of railway safety. The Railway Safety Directive was implemented in the United Kingdom by: the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS); the Railways (Access to Training Services) Regulations 2006; the Railways (Safety Management) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006; and the Railways (Accident Investigation and Reporting) Regulations 2005. In Great Britain ROGS provides a consolidated, coherent set of regulations for railways ( including heritage, light rail, and metros); other guided transport systems, such as monorails; and tramways. Though this means some requirements similar to the Safety Directive exist on these systems, the Directive only applies to the mainline railway. More information can be found in our ROGS section. There are proposals in the Fourth Railway Package to revise the Railway Safety Directive.  The draft recast Directive contains, among other things, a proposal for a common ECM certification scheme for all vehicles by 24 December 2016.  This will be based on an evaluation carried out by ERA and reported to the European Commission. Common safety methods Common safety methods (CSMs) are developed by ERA to help establish a single market for rail transport services and ensure that safety is maintained at a high level and, when and where necessary and reasonably practicable, improved. They aim to provide a common approach to assess the level of safety and performance of operators at EU level and in Member States. Under ROGS, transport undertakings and infrastructure managers must comply with CSMs as part of their SMS.  CSMs are adopted by the European Commission and published as Regulations, which are directly applicable in each Member State. Read more about common safety methods National Safety Rules The Railway Safety Directive requires Member States to develop a system of national safety rules. We have worked with DfT and RSSB to develop the United Kingdom's national safety rules. In 2007 the rules were notified to the European Commission.  A European-wide exercise is now underway to rationalise national safety rules using a risk management tool developed by ERA.  We will update this page on progress with Great Britain's rules as the work is progressed. Last updated - 12 September 2014 
file_45.txt|Closing a scheme Find out your clients' staging dates Your clients staging date is set in law and is the date their automatic enrolment duties come into effect. They must be prepared for this date. When you know your clients' staging dates you can help them understand what they need to do for automatic enrolment. You can work back from this date to plan what actions need to be made and when. For a summary of your client's staging date, read what is my staging date? How is the staging date determined? An employer's staging date is determined by the number of persons in the largest PAYE scheme that they use, based on the data from HM Revenue and Customs held by The Pensions Regulator on 1 April 2012. Where to find out your client's staging date We will write to all employers to confirm their staging date but you can look up a client's staging date by entering the reference of their largest PAYE scheme into our staging date tool . Please be aware though that there are some staging date exceptions . You can find your client's PAYE reference(s) on their P6 / P9 coding notice or on their white payslip booklet, P30BC. If they have more than one PAYE scheme you’ll need to enter the details of each one into our staging date tool individually. See related content 
file_188.txt|The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Corporate publications This section includes all our corporate publications, including our annual reports, corporate plans, business plans and our framework document. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Consumer publications This section includes publications to provide guidance to consumers on the safe use of medicines and medical devices. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Safety guidance This section includes the wide range of documents we produce which provide guidance on safety issues concerning medicines and medical devices. Go to the safety guidance section Regulatory guidance This section includes the wide range of publications we produce to provide guidance to industry on the regulation of devices and medicines. Go to the regulatory guidance section Consultations The MHRA formally consults organisations representing public and professional interests, trade associations and industry on proposed statutory changes and other matters of importance. Go to the consultations section Public Assessment Reports (PARs) The MHRA makes assessment reports available for all new licences for medicines granted after 30 October 2005, albeit with commercially or personally confidential information removed. 
file_472.txt|Department for Transport Department for Transport The Department for Transport's role is to provide strategic direction and funding to the railways in England and Wales, as well as to procure rail franchises and projects. The Department’s work is directed and overseen by the Secretary of State for Transport and his Ministerial team. The DfT Rail group's objectives are: to ensure delivery of improved operational and financial performance, and safety, by the railway; to secure appropriate rail passenger services at an acceptable price through effective specification and procurement; to develop and deliver a robust, affordable and sustainable strategy for the development of the railway that supports wider transport objectives; and to ensure the cost-effective and timely delivery of major rail projects. The Scottish government is responsible for the same in Scotland. As the independent regulator, ORR works closely with both the Scottish government and the DfT to help ensure a safe, efficient and value for money rail network in England, Wales and Scotland. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_347.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_708.txt|23 Apr 2012 Licence condition 1 - Network management and timetabling Condition 1 of Network Rail's network licence sets out some specific obligations for Network Rail to establish and maintain RUS's for the whole and part of the network and promote the route utilisation objective in accordance with our RUS guidelines. The condition also requires Network Rail to propose a programme of RUS establishment dates for our approval. Route utilisation objective means: The effective and efficient use and development of the capacity available, consistent with funding that is, or is reasonably likely to become, available during the period of the route utilisation strategy and with the licence holder's performance of the general duty. Our guidelines outline a process that Network Rail must follow in establishing a RUS and our right to issue a notice of objection. This is an important safeguard in the event that a RUS does not adequately promote the route utilisation objective or does not fulfill the specified procedural requirements. Network Rail has developed a consultation process. Each individual RUS is overseen by a number of meetings of industry representatives for the route under consideration. What we do We have published Guidance on route utilisation strategies pdf icon PDF, 54 Kb specifying how Network Rail should develop RUSs. Our guidelines identify two purposes of RUSs. These are to: enable Network Rail and persons providing services in relation to railways to better plan their businesses and funders to better plan their activities; and set out feasible options for network capacity, timetable outputs and network capability, and funding implications of those options for persons providing services to railways and funders. Each individual RUS is overseen by a number of meetings of industry representatives for the route under consideration. We are an observer at these meetings. Wider stakeholders are invited to make proposals for inclusion in the RUS and to attend periodic wider consultation meetings as each RUS is developed. Network Rail prepares each RUS steered by the relevant Stakeholder Management Group at each of the development stages: Scoping; 
file_816.txt|Licence exemptions by company E-K This section lists railway licence exemptions for companies E – K. All copies of licence exemptions, granted by us are available in our public register . Abbreviations for terms used describing licence exemptions listed in this section: LMD: a light maintenance depot where services such as refuelling and cleaning trains takes place, and other frequent light maintenance work. Heritage: an operation primarily used for tourist, educational or recreational purposes of non-mainline passenger services and assets, usually on a preserved railway line. Network: a railway line or combination of lines and installations. Licence exempt networks are usually functionally separate from the national network. Usually they will also be operated within a fenced or controlled access territory. This includes freight sidings or goods terminals. Contractor: a rail maintenance company which undertakes track maintenance and repair, usually on behalf of Network Rail. Maintenance activities take place within engineering possessions using specialist or Rail Mounted Maintenance Vehicles (RMMVs). Non-passenger trains: freight or maintenance trains. In the context of exemptions, this would include short distance, non-mainline shunting operations in specific areas. All licence exemptions are published by, exemption title, description of exemption and the date it came into force. 
file_47.txt|Help your clients comply with their duties You can help your clients avoid penalties by understanding how they must comply with their employer duties. But if you're an adviser, there are third party compliance obligations which you must be aware of when carrying out these activities on behalf of your clients. We will enforce non-compliance by issuing statutory notices and fixed or escalating penalties. Responsibility for complying with the duties ultimately lies with the employer. Compliance and enforcement Learn about our approach to minimising non-compliance with automatic enrolment, and how we will enforce deliberate non-compliance by reading what happens if I don't comply? For a summary of the compliance and enforcement strategy, outlining our regulatory approach and legal powers, read our guidance on employer duties and defining the workforce (PDF, 163kb, 28 pages) . Keeping records There are certain records that must be kept by law, by both the employer and the pension scheme, as proof of compliance. Read our detailed guidance on keeping records (PDF, 97kb, 13 pages) . Create an action plan For an overview of what your clients need to do to comply, with links to information and resources that help with each step, use our tool to create your action plan for automatic enrolment . To remind your clients of the steps they should have already completed six months before their staging date, you can send them our six month checkpoint leaflet (PDF, 42kb, 2 pages) . A Welsh version of the six month checkpoint leaflet (PDF, 145kb, 2 pages) is also available. Safeguards and employer duties Some of the safeguards came into effect from 1 July 2012, so all employers must be compliant now and not just from their staging date – make sure your clients are aware of this. Support your clients to comply with the new employer duties by reading our detailed guidance on safeguarding individuals (PDF, 104kb, 17 pages) . Subscribe to news-by-email Subscribe to our news-by-email service – it's a free and easy way to keep up to date with all our developments. You can choose to receive updates on everything or only updates on automatic enrolment. Share this page using: 
file_484.txt|British Transport Police British Transport Police The British Transport Police (BTP) are the national police force for the railways providing a policing service to rail operators, their staff and passengers throughout England, Wales and Scotland. They are also responsible for policing the London Underground system, Docklands Light Railway, the Glasgow Subway, the Midland Metro tram system and Croydon Tramlink. When incidents occur We work in conjunction with the British Transport Police (BTP), and the Rail Accident and Investigation Branch (RAIB) to investigate the causes of incidents. In all circumstances we have a role in investigating potential breaches of health and safety. However, only BTP can investigate serious criminal offences and decide whether there is sufficient evidence to bring charges. BTP investigations will take precedence in these investigations and RAIB will provide technical and scientific support. In cases where the BTP do not have precedence, RAIB will lead the investigation into the cause of the accident/incident. In cases where RAIB have decided not to investigate On occasions where RAIB does not investigate, we will provide technical and scientific support to the BTP. We will also look into both technical and root cause failings in the management of health and safety, and consider the possibility of pursuing criminal charges arising under health and safety law. For further information see our enforcement section . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_490.txt|Network Rail Network Rail Network Rail is the owner, operator and infrastructure manager of Britain's main railway network. It runs, maintains and develops the core physical infrastructure of the network and has to ensure efficient management of the assets over the short, medium and long-term. While managing the existing fabric of the network, and ensuring its safe use, its role is also to support and implement new initiatives and upgrades, overseeing investment committed to the development of the railways. We ensure that Network Rail operates and plans the future use and development of the network and maintains and enhances its assets in such a way that meets the reasonable requirements of its customers and funders. Network Rail provides the train operating companies with access to the network. Structure Network Rail is a company limited by guarantee, and was established in March 2002. It is a private company with a board of directors, but does not have shareholders. It's members are drawn from the rail industry and the public. Its accountable to its customers and funded through a mixture of access revenue, paid to it by the train operating companies, and received money from the government grants. Network Rail operates under a licence issued by the Secretary of State for Transport which we administer and enforce. One of our regulatory requirements is ensuring Network Rail operates and plans the future use and development of the network. It must also maintain and enhance the railway to meet the requirements of its customers and funders. What are its responsibilities? 
file_144.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site About us The Pensions Regulator is the UK regulator of work-based pension schemes. We work with trustees, employers, pension specialists and business advisers, giving guidance on what is expected of them. We also have functions under legislation passed in 2008 and a statutory objective to maximise compliance with the employer duties under that legislation relating to automatic enrolment. Our principal aim is to prevent problems from developing. We use our powers flexibly, reasonably and appropriately, with the aim of putting things right and keeping schemes, and employers on the right track for the long term. 
file_407.txt|
file_920.txt|New ORR data shows passenger journeys at record high New statistics published today by the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) show that the number of passenger journeys on franchised rail services reached 407.7 million between July and September this year (Q2, 2014-15), a 4.4% increase on the same quarter last year. 
file_404.txt|COSHH and welders - key messages Substances hazardous to health in welding, cutting and allied processes include: fume and gases from welding and cutting; dust from gouging and abrasive blasting; paints, lubricants, degreasing and stripping  fluids; pickling pastes; work in confined spaces and inert gases (eg  nitrogen, argon). Control measures include: personal protective equipment (eg gloves,  masks, respirators). Example: Welding fume Problems can occur if exposure to hazardous substances is not controlled. Fume from welding can cause lung diseases, with an increased risk of asthma and cancer. The amount of fume depends on the welding process â€“ some processes produce a great deal of fume. The location (eg outdoors; restricted area) and the fume from the metal welded also affects the controls needed. Help in identifying the right controls appears on the e-COSHH essentials for welders website. You need to enter information about the welding process, the location, and the metal welded to get the right control information. Employees Your employer provides equipment to protect your health, such as: extraction of fume; You have a duty to use these properly and co-operate with any monitoring. Resources 
file_373.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_770.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_450.txt|Our functions Our functions We regulate the rail industry's health and safety performance, we hold Network Rail and High speed 1 to account and we make sure that the rail industry is competitive and fair. ORR and safety Britain now has one of the safest railways in Europe – for passengers and for workers. We regulate health and safety for the entire mainline rail network in Britain, as well as London Underground, light rail, trams and the heritage sector. It's our responsibility to ensure that  those responsible make Britain's railways safe for passengers and provide a safe place for staff to work. Our role includes: providing health and safety guidance and conducting research to promote continuous improvement publishing reports on the rail industry's health and safety performance carrying out inspections to ensure that the train and freight operating companies and Network Rail manage both passenger and occupational health and safety risks appropriately investigating breaches of health and safety regulation on the railways taking informal and formal enforcement action, including improvement notices and prosecutions. ORR and Network Rail The railway network needs to be run for the benefit of the whole country. ORR regulates Network Rail, holding it to account for delivering high levels of performance and service, as well as good value for money – for passengers, the freight industry and taxpayers. Our role includes: setting the overall strategic direction for Network Rail and more specifically targets for performance and efficiency monitoring Network Rail's delivery against targets scrutinising Network Rail's spending plans and projected rail investment publishing reports on Network Rail's performance and efficiency rewarding Network Rail for good performance and taking enforcement action where necessary – including financial penalties making sure that Network Rail complies with the condition of its licence taking appropriate action when Network Rail's performance does not meet the conditions of its licence. ORR and HS1 ORR regulates the High Speed 1 line between St Pancras and the Channel Tunnel. This line is operated by HS1 Ltd, and is separate to the rest of the national railway network operated by Network Rail, but ORR regulates it in much the same way. This includes holding HS1 to account for its performance, service and value for money for passengers and the freight industry. Our role includes: Validating the targets for performance and efficiency agreed between HS1 and its customers Monitoring HS1's delivery against performance and efficiency targets Reviewing and approving HS1's spending plans Publishing reports on HS1's efficiency and performance Making sure that HS1 complies with the obligations of its concession from government Monitoring the way in which HS1 looks after the physical railway network Taking action if HS1 is not meeting its obligations ORR: fair access and fair treatment It's vital that railway customers and taxpayers benefit from competitive railway markets and that passengers are treated fairly. ORR licenses train companies and plays a key role in enforcing competition and consumer law across the railway industry. Our role includes: licensing the companies that operate Britain's trains, stations, light maintenance depots and networks approving network access agreements for passenger and freight train companies investigating companies believed to be involved in anti-competitive practices protecting passengers from breaches of consumer law The Department for Transport, Transport Scotland and the Welsh Government are responsible for letting franchises to the train operating companies in England, Scotland and Wales, and for regulating passenger fares. ORR and customers The government says that it wants to put passengers at the heart of our railways – and ORR has a big part to play as the independent regulator. We want to see a railway that balances the interests of investors, customers, taxpayers and the industry. Although we do not regulate fares, ensuring that passengers get a safe, high-performing service is extremely important. Our role includes: holding Network Rail to account for providing a punctual and reliable service to passengers and the freight industry requiring Network Rail to reduce disruption from engineering works making sure that train operating companies provide reliable and timely passenger information for planning travel – and take action when things go wrong ensuring customers have a say in how improvement projects are carried out enforcing compliance with disability regulations carrying out research and publishing information about passenger issues, such as ticketing investigating when passengers say their complaints have not been dealt with properly by the train companies working with independent passenger watchdogs like Passenger Focus looking after the rights of disabled passengers overseeing passenger complaints and investigating when passengers don't feel that the industry has addressed these properly. We also work to ensure that freight customers benefit from improved safety, efficiency and capacity. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_467.txt|Mainline network Mainline network Network Rail is the owner and operator of the majority of national railway infrastructure. It must ensure safe and effective management and development of that infrastructure. As a private sector company and monopoly owner and operator Network Rail is accountable to the public interest through regulation. It operates under a licence enforced by ORR which contains conditions with which it must comply. More information about Network Rail responsibilities can be found in the Network Rail regulation section. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_797.txt|Background Background to operator licensing This guidance explains the legal framework and procedures we use when we consider licensing applications and also explains the types of licences that are available. Railways Act 1993 - licences Section 6 of the Railways Act 1993 (the Act) makes it an offense to act as the operator of a railway asset, other than a passenger train or freight train within the scope of the Railway (Licensing of Railway Undertakings) Regulations 2005 (the Regulations), without holding a licence or a licence exemption granted under the Act. This applies to all railway assets regardless of the scale of operations, and includes operators of privately owned freight terminals and other minor networks. Railway assets are trains, networks, stations and light maintenance depots. An 'operator' is defined as: 'the person having management of that railway asset for the time being'. For instance, in the case of a train, this would normally be the person from whom the driver takes 'management' instructions, rather than 'signalling' instructions. Types of licences There are five different Railways Act licences. One for each category of railway asset. Network licence Authorises a person to be the operator of a network, and trains being used on a network for any purpose comprised in the operation of the network. Passenger train licence Authorises a person to be the operator of a train being used on a network for the purpose of carrying passengers by railway. Non-passenger train licence Authorises a person to be the operator of other trains being used on a network. This is the type of licence held by some rail maintenance and renewal companies. Station licence Authorises a person to operate one or more specified stations. Light maintenance depot licence Authorises a person to operate one or more specified light maintenance depots. European licences The Railway (Licensing of Railway Undertakings) Regulations 2005 require most people who want to operate passenger trains or freight trains in Great Britain to hold an appropriate European passenger licence or European freight licence, and a Statement of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRP). Statement of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRP) For train operators required to hold European licences granted by us, or by other European regulators, the various conditions for operating in Great Britain are set out in a Statement of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRP). We grant two different types of European licence: European passenger licence Authorises a railway company to run passenger trains. This type of licence is typically held by passenger train operators who run on the mainline. European freight licence Authorises a railway company to run freight trains. This type of licence is typically held by freight train operators who run on the mainline. In principle, European licences permit railway undertakings to operate the described services in any EEA state. To operate within Great Britain, holders of European licences also need a Statement of National Regulatory Provisions (SNRP) from us. Other EEA states may require European licence holders to satisfy national regulatory requirements particular to each state. Further information 
file_788.txt|Depot access Depot access The railway network has a large number of privately owned facilities that are accessible by rail. We regulate access to around 100 light maintenance depots in Great Britain which provide services to passenger and other trains. We regulate access to light maintenance depots by approving depot access agreements in accordance with the terms of the Railways Act 1993 . Please visit our statutory functions and duties to find out the law through which we regulate depot access. The operator of a depot is known as a depot facility owner. Other train operators, or third parties procuring depot services on behalf of a train operator (known as beneficiaries), who want to use the depot must enter into an access agreement with the depot facility owner. If the agreements are not approved by us, they are invalid. This diagram explains the relationships which exist within the contractual regime. Contact us Members of the team are happy to discuss any station or depot access queries. The team can be contacted in the following ways. Stations & Depots and Network Code Team Office of Rail Regulation 
file_512.txt|Tax arrangements Review of the tax arrangements of public sector appointees On 23 May 2012, the Government published a review of the tax arrangements of public sector appointees. The review identified the number of off payroll engagements worth more than £58,200 per annum across government - and made recommendations to improve the tax transparency of these kind of arrangements. This document pdf icon PDF, 86 Kb constitutes the Office of Rail Regulation's submission to this review. The full review and recommendations can be found at www.hm-treasury.gov.uk . Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_152.txt|If you are blind Provide feedback on our site We're working hard on our website and believe we've achieved our goal of Level AA accessibility. We monitor the website regularly to maintain this, but if you do find any problems, please go to our web enquiry page and let us know. Accessing PDFs on our site You'll need to download and use free Adobe Reader software to access the portable document format (PDF) files on our website. Download the latest version of Adobe Reader . For further information on Adobe products and accessibility go to the Adobe accessibility section . All our documents can be produced in an alternative format on request - in Braille, large print or on audiotape. We can also produce them in other languages. Viewing CSV files on our site CSV (Comma-Separated-Value) is a common file type used to import data from one software application to another, with commas separating the values in each field. This file format allows for data to be easily retrieved into a variety of applications, they are best viewed within one that will allow the easy manipulation of data that is displayed in columns. Common examples of such applications are those that are used to create spreadsheets, such as Microsoft Excel or Open Office Calc. If you don't have access to a suitable application, you can also view: the data in either an ASCII text-editor or a word-processor. However, since neither of these application types has the facility to easily format the width of the data columns, quite a bit of manual reformatting may be required to view the files properly. the file in your browser, or you may want to download the file by 'right-clicking' on the link and save the file to your computer. Some people may find that when they view the CSV file some information may not be correctly displayed. For example, you may see: rows of 'hash' symbols eg '######' instead of numbers or letters, this is because the current column is too narrow, try double clicking the column header some information displayed in 'scientific notation' eg '1.23 x 109' instead of '1230000000', this is remedied by setting the column format to 'number' rather than 'general' or 'scientific'. Using access keys on our site We have added keyboard shortcuts known as ‘access keys’ on our website to allow you to navigate as directly as possible to your desired location using your keyboard. Access Keys (keyboard shortcuts) for this site are as follows: 1 - Home 
file_422.txt|
file_792.txt|Closures Closures The Railways Act 2005 sets out statutory procedures concerning proposals for the closure of passenger services, passenger networks and stations. The Act placed a duty on the secretary of state and Scottish ministers to publish closures guidance outlining how such proposals should be assessed and processed. Our responsibilities for closures Our responsibilities for closures are: to ensure the consultation undertaken in accordance with the closures guidance, has been carried out appropriately; to evaluate the assessment made to ensure that the published methodology has been followed correctly; and to consider whether the proposed closure represents poor or low value for money in comparison with retention. We will consider closure references made by rail funding authorities in accordance with our published procedures. If we determine that the proposal meets the above criteria, we must issue a 'closure ratification notice' allowing the closure to proceed. If we are are not satisfied that the criteria has been met we must issue a closure 'non-ratification notice'. If you have any questions relating to closures, please contact us . Closures documentation Folkestone Harbour branch line and station 
file_136.txt|Prohibition of trustees Published determinations The regulator's policy is to publish in full, all determinations, unless it considers there is good reason not to. Exceptions to publishing a determination, or publishing it in full, will be considered where publication would give rise to one or more of the following: an adverse impact on market behaviours – which can include commercial and/or price sensitivity issues prejudice investigations by other bodies disclosure of information protected under the Official Secrets Act or unrelated restricted information risk to individual safety or mental health (in relation to reputational and civil liability) disclosure of sensitive personal data. On this page... 
file_354.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_495.txt|Rail Delivery Group Rail Delivery Group One of the recommendations made by the McNulty rail value for money study was that a leadership body be established to take responsibility for coordinating and leading on cross industry initiatives, including delivery of the other McNulty recommendations. The Rail Delivery Group was established in June 2011 by the major passenger and freight train operator groups and Network Rail to fulfil this role. In 2013 the structure of the group was formalised to ensure that it continued to receive the full commitment of key people and organisations from across the railway industry. This was achieved through the incorporation of a new membership condition into the licences of Network Rail and those passenger and freight operators that operate over the mainline network. More information about RDG can be found on its website . ORR has a limited appeal role in respect of the membership arrangements, and the process we will use to determine any disputes can be found in the following documents: 
file_783.txt|Modifications The Network Code - modifications The rail industry can propose changes to the Network Code through Part C. ORR has a role to approve those changes as any modifications to the Code may have a bearing on Track Access contracts. Part C of the Network Code provides processes by which the Code can be modified. Condition C5, which provides a democratic industry process whereby Network Rail, train operators or ORR can propose changes; and Condition C8, which provides the ORR with a right to make changes. Recent modifications are listed below. Proposals 
file_112.txt|Applications Current position The regulator has devised new criteria which we will be applying when assessing whether the conditions for joining and remaining on the trustee register have been met. Back to top Conditions for joining There are a number of legislative conditions which an applicant must fulfil before admission on to the Independent Trustee Register. The applicant must also continue to meet these conditions to remain on the register. The conditions fall into two categories: fact-based (ie the conditions are met or not); and judgement-based (ie in the light of the regulator’s assessment, whether the applicant meets - and continues to meet - the criteria). The fact-based conditions The applicant must not be the subject of a prohibition order or suspension order, or disqualified from being a trustee of a trust scheme on any of the prescribed grounds. Where the applicant is not an individual, every officer and every key person must satisfy certain conditions. The applicant must have premises in the United Kingdom from which it conducts its trustee business and must disclose the address of those premises to the regulator (the regulator will expect those applicants with presences in other jurisdictions to provide an explanation of how they will safeguard the assets of UK schemes). The applicant must agree: to have costs and fees scrutinised by an independent adjudicator and be bound by that adjudicator as to fees and costs; to the regulator disclosing his name, business address and the specialist areas of trustee work on a version of the trustee register, which is publicly available; to comply with the regulator’s reasonable requests to provide information; and to inform the regulator as soon as is reasonably practicable if they become disqualified. The judgement-based conditions The regulator must be satisfied that the applicant has, and continues to have, 'sufficient relevant experience' of occupational pension schemes; The regulator must be satisfied that the applicant is, and continues to be, a 'fit and proper’ person to act as a trustee of an occupational pension scheme; The regulator must be satisfied that the applicant operates, and continues to operate, 'sound administrative and accounting procedures’; and The regulator must be satisfied that the applicant has, and continues to have, 'adequate indemnity insurance’ cover. All applicants must meet each of the fact-based and judgement-based conditions. In addition, where the applicant is a company, partnership or limited liability partnership, some of its main individuals also must meet some of the fact-based and judgement-based conditions. The regulator's criteria for the judgement-based conditions Condition The regulator's criteria Sufficient relevant experience Both individuals and Key Persons should have had at least five years of regular or continuous experience as a trustee of occupational pension schemes up to the point of the application. Non-individual applicants should have had at least three years of regular or continuous experience as a trustee of occupational pension schemes up to the point of the application. Compliance will be checked on an annual basis. Fit and proper The regulator will seek to be satisfied that the applicant has the qualities of fitness and propriety to be a trustee. All individual applicants, all Key Persons and Officers will need to demonstrate they have a minimum level of understanding of the nature of trusteeship (eg by completing the regulator’s Trustee toolkit) as part of the regulator’s assessment of whether these individuals have met this test. Compliance will be checked on an annual basis (or whenever any changes are notified to the regulator by the applicant). Sound administrative and accounting procedures The regulator has adopted an audit and assurance framework (developed with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales). The regulator requires an unqualified independent assurance report from a reporting accountant submitted by the applicant, upon application and on an annual basis. The regulator uses this assurance report to help determine whether the legal requirement to have ‘sound administrative and accounting procedures’ has been met. For more information go to assurance reporting framework . Adequate indemnity insurance cover The applicant will need to provide their insurance policy/certification of insurance confirming: Professional indemnity insurance cover of (in respect of all of its occupational pension trustee work): at least £2 million for a single claim with at least two reinstatements (ie three claims as a minimum); or at least £6 million in aggregate annually. That the policy is solely in the applicant’s name or the applicant is a named insured on a group policy (if any). That the cover is provided by an independent third-party insurer (ie not a captive insurer). The applicant must have sufficient resources in its business to cover its policy excess. Compliance will be checked on an annual basis (or whenever there are any changes (which must be notified to the regulator by the applicant). Applications It's important that you read these notes carefully before completing the application forms. The purpose of the application process is to enable us to obtain information and assurances from the applicant in order that we can assess whether the applicant satisfies the judgement-based and fact-based conditions. This assessment will take place for the purpose of registering the applicant on to the register and, if registration is successful, further assessments will take place on an annual basis in order for us to assess if the applicant continues to satisfy the conditions. Although requests for information in the forms are split into sections relating to each of the conditions, the information provided may be relevant to the regulator's assessment of the other conditions and may be used accordingly. We may wish to seek further information from the applicant following our review of the application forms. We may also wish to arrange a meeting with the applicant, either at its premises or at the regulator's offices. Corporate applications Corporate (ie Partnership/LLP/Company) applicants need to complete form COR1 (Corporate application form) and form COR2 (Key Person and Officer form) and form COR3 (Corporate experience form). In addition, each Key Person and each Officer from a corporate applicant needs to complete form COR4 (Key Person and Officer Fit and Proper form). 
file_227.txt|August 2014: following our latest review, here is a list of MDAs that we have withdrawn (449Kb) 
file_21.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
file_510.txt|ORR organogram and data sets ORR organogram and data sets The purpose of the disclosure of public body size and salary data is to provide transparency to the public on the value of public sector posts – by helping you understand both the costs and responsibilities of these posts. In addition to this it allows the public a unique insight into the diversity of roles and work across government. Our budgeted staff job complement is 286.9 (FTE). Our current resourcing ratio is 95.8% (the resourcing ration is the number of permanent staff as a percentage of number of posts). We have our own grade structure, which broadly compares to traditional the Civil Service grade structure as shown in table 1. Each grade has a pay band associated with it and these paybands are shown on our organogram pdf icon PDF, 140 Kb . Our current pay system and pay ranges are currently subject to review and consultation with our staff representatives and recognised trade unions. Comparison of ORR grades to "traditional" Civil Service grades ORR Grade 
file_105.txt|It is the trustees’ duty to agree the recovery plan with the sponsoring employer and to submit it to the regulator. You can use our Exchange online service to submit the recovery plan. See related content 
file_642.txt|Types of crowding Types of crowding An explanation about the three specific areas of passenger overcrowding about which we have a concern: during emergency evacuations; on platforms and stations; and on underground routes in hot weather. Although we do not have overall responsibility for crowding on trains, there are specific situations where we are focused and can enforce legislation. During emergency evacuations In most instances it is far safer for passengers to stay on board a train after an incident rather than get out. This is because of the presence of other train movements and 'live' tracks. On platforms and stations Station operators' safety responsibilities include developing and using the strategic and day-to-day management procedures for dealing with crowded platforms. These usually involve station managers taking specific action to control access to platforms when necessary to regulate overcrowding. On underground routes in hot weather Rolling stock and infrastructure failures in deep tunnels can cause more specific health concerns. This is due to the increased temperatures and reduced ventilation that may be encountered by passengers on delayed and overcrowded carriages, particularly during summer months. In such cases health and safety law requires employers to put arrangements in place to reduce the risks, and this includes balancing whether it is safer to de-train passengers, despite the different risks this may pose. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_592.txt|Responses to RAIB reports 2013 Responses to RAIB reports 2013 Our responses to the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) in relation to their recommendations published in 2013. Incident date 
file_716.txt|Infrastructure capability documentation Infrastructure capability documentation On 2 March 2006, we imposed a fine of £250,000 on Network Rail for its failure to ensure the information it made available to the industry on the capability of its infrastructure was accurate. 
file_745.txt|Consumer issues Consumer issues This page gives information on how we will help improve the credibility and effectiveness of passenger protection in the mainline railway. Consumer law aims to ensure that businesses are fair and open in their dealings with consumers. Our powers cover rail passengers and the companies they deal with. ORR is a designated enforcer under Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002. Our powers enable us to stop breaches of a range of consumer protection laws where there is evidence of passengers as a group being put at an unfair disadvantage. A key set of rules are the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 . These prohibit some practices outright, such as misleading advertising and contain a general ban on 'practices which contravene the requirements of professional diligence'. The Department for Transport has a central role to play in the delivery/protection of passenger benefits through its operation and enforcement of franchises, as do other franchising authorities including Transport Scotland and the Welsh Assembly Government. Passenger Focus and London TravelWatch also continue to have a significant role in assisting passengers and raising passengers' awareness of their rights. There are also other consumer bodies such as the Advertising Standards Authority which can intervene to protect passengers – by policing the self-regulatory advertising industry codes. ORR's approach to its consumer law role is to avoid overlap and to, therefore, intervene only where there is a gap in protection for the passenger, where no other body is taking action or where the powers available to us are more suited to the circumstances. Guidance The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) has published guidance on consumer protection under Part 8 of the Enterprise Act 2002 . It has also produced a guide on the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, which implements the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive . ORR's approach to enforcing general consumer law in services relating to railways pdf icon PDF, 125 Kb , sets out the approach we will take in exercising our consumer law enforcement role. This document is mainly aimed at those providing services to consumers in relation to the railways, such as train operating companies and third party retailers of train tickets but it should also be useful for rail passengers and those who represent them. Who should I complain to? Please read our complaints section for more information. As you will see, we will not normally address complaints where you have not first given the company involved the opportunity to resolve it, and sought assistance from Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch. The steps you should follow are: in the first instance, you should contact the company that you are having problems with to allow it the opportunity to address your concerns. Contact details for individual train companies can be found on the national rail website . Most complaints can be resolved in the first instance by dealing directly with the company responsible. if you have made a complaint to a train operator, and are dissatisfied with the response you receive, you can contact either Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch for help. Passenger Focus is a statutory body sponsored by the DfT to represent passenger interests and to act as Britain's  rail passenger watchdog. London TravelWatch is the official watchdog organisation representing the interests of transport users in and around the capital. Passenger Focus and London TravelWatch cannot become involved until the train company involved has had a chance to resolve the matter for you. although we generally cannot become involved in individual disputes, we do have consumer protection powers and will consider complaints after other avenues have failed to resolve the problem and when there is evidence of collective consumer harm. Complaint Handling Procedures All passenger train and station operators are required by their licences to establish and comply with a set of procedures for handling complaints from customers. Operators develop their complaint handling procedures (CHPs) in consultation with Passenger Focus and London TravelWatch to ensure the passenger perspective is represented. These procedures, and any material changes to them, require approval from us. Operators can refer to guidance, on what operators should include in their CHPs . CHPs vary, but typically set out how passengers can raise complaints, any service standards associated with acknowledging or dealing with the complaint, how complaints may be investigated and what happens if a passenger is not satisfied with how the complaint is handled. Each train or station operator can supply a copy of their procedure, you can also refer to our advice on making a complaint . We assumed responsibility for approving and monitoring compliance with CHPs from the Department for Transport in October 2013, following consultation in July 2013 to amend operators' licences . This followed consultation and the Secretary of State's decision to transfer responsibility to ORR . We are reviewing our approach to approving and monitoring CHPs. We will be setting out a statement on our approach and reviewing the existing guidance over the course of 2014. Rail passenger complaints handling: from process to culture 13 March 2014 workshop pdf icon PDF, 60 Kb Making a complaint to us Your complaint might be about something that happened when you were looking for a ticket, buying a ticket, making a journey or making a complaint about a journey, and which you think is likely to happen to quite a few other people. When making a complaint to us, you need to supply as much information as you can. We have put some examples of the type of information that we might need, below. Not all of these will be relevant to each complaint, but you should provide the information that you think is appropriate. copies of any correspondence that you have had with either the business concerned, Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch the type of ticket that you purchased (i.e. Anytime, Advance, Off peak, or a season ticket) where your journey was to and from the time of day that you made the journey the name of the company that sold you your ticket how you bought your ticket (i.e. online, phone, at a station, from a machine) where did you get the information that your intended purchase was based on. Further information 
file_970.txt|Skip to content Skip to navigation Office for Nuclear Regulation This website uses non-intrusive cookies to improve your user experience. You can visit our cookie privacy page for more information. 
file_813.txt|Licences by company S - Z Railway licences for companies listed S - Z. Siemens Plc © Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_683.txt|Periodic review 2008 (PR08) consultants' reports This page lists the consultants' reports relating to the 2008 periodic review (PR08). Review of Network Rail's consultation response pdf icon PDF, 328 Kb 20 Oct 2008 Site Inspection and Review of items proposed for renewal on Primary Routes in 2009/10 to assess the justification for the timing and the proposed engineering specification, Richard Spoors Associates Ltd pdf icon PDF, 2,391 Kb 18 Sep 2008 A response to the LECG and Horton 4 Consulting reports on the ITS/ORR international benchmarking study (based on the LICB dataset), ITS Leeds pdf icon PDF, 191 Kb 30 Oct 2008 International benchmarking of Network Rail's maintenance and renewal costs: an econometric study based on the LICB dataset, ITS Leeds pdf icon PDF, 202 Kb 30 Oct 2008 
file_111.txt|Joining the trustee register About the trustee register Since 2005, the regulator has accepted applications to be on the trustee register from sole trader trustees and trustee organisations (eg partnerships and companies). The regulator uses the trustee register to appoint independent trustees to schemes under sections 22 and 23 of the Pensions Act 1995. These appointments are usually made, on expedient or protective grounds, to ensure that the scheme is properly administered and the members protected when its employer is insolvent. In addition, although it is not required to do so, the regulator will usually consider appointing a trustee from the trustee register when making appointments under section 7 of the Pensions Act 1995. Trustees are not required to be on the trustee register; it is a voluntary decision. If a trustee is on the trustee register, this is not a guarantee that it will receive appointments from the regulator. Before making any appointment the regulator considers the unique circumstances and needs of the scheme before selecting the appropriate trustee candidate for appointment. Acceptance of a trustee on to the trustee register does not represent an endorsement or approval by the regulator of the services provided by that trustee. The trustee register is available for inspection at the regulator's offices during normal working hours. If you would like a copy of the trustee register sent to you, please supply your name and address using the contact details below. Contact details 
file_619.txt|Worker safety Worker safety The rail industry has a duty to keep its workers safe. It has created a number of policies and procedures to try to achieve that.We carry out regular inspections to ensure that the procedures are being followed by the rail industry and to identify possible gaps and improvements. In this section: 
file_962.txt|Improvement Notice – Devonport Royal Dockyard 8 January, 2015 ONR has served an Improvement Notice on Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited as a result of an investigation which highlighted shortfalls in the health and safety arrangements for work with ionising radiations.  The improvement notice follows an incident which resulted in an individual receiving a very small internal dose of radioactivity. It is the duty holder’s responsibility to make and implement arrangements in order to keep doses as low as reasonably practicable, and while the consequences of the intake were negligible, the event highlighted shortfalls in the licensee’s arrangements for working with ionising radiations. ONR has previously engaged with the duty holder to facilitate safety improvements, however further action is now required to bring the arrangements up to an acceptable standard.   DRDL is now required to submit a programme of work to ONR and provide regular updates and evidence to demonstrate completion of key activities. DRDL is required to make the improvements by 31 January 2016. 
file_266.txt|Good Distribution Practice (GDP) is that part of quality assurance which ensures that products are consistently stored, transported and handled under suitable condition as required by the marketing authorisation (MA) or product specification. News and hot topics 
file_171.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) This section provides access to a range of  services to help you keep up to date with the latest updates from the MHRA. You can sign up for free email notifications when new content is published on the MHRA website, follow us on Twitter, like us on Facebook or receive the latest news from the MHRA using our RSS feeds. You can also view the MHRA YouTube channel. Email alerting service In this section you can sign up to receive our free email alerts. This service enables you to receive free emails when new content is added to the sections of your choice on the MHRA website, ensuring you receive the latest news from the MHRA as soon as it is issued. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Twitter 
file_665.txt|Possessions regime workshop Possessions regime workshop We held a half day industry workshop on the Schedule 4 possessions regime on 11 November 2011. Schedule 4 is the regime by which operators are compensated for possessions (delays and cancellations due to Network Rail's engineering work, and it is intended to incentivise Network Rail to plan engineering work early and efficiently. The workshop provided stakeholders with the opportunity to explore and debate: the effectiveness of the current regime in incentivising the efficient management of possessions and in compensating operators for associated losses; at a high level, the degree to which Schedule 4 should be subject to further review during the periodic review 2013 (PR13); and the merits of the model contract versus bespoke arrangements, particularly in context of wider reform to support closer working between operators and Network Rail at the route level. We provided stakeholders with opportunities to engage on more detailed Schedule 4 issues later in PR13. Further information 
file_697.txt|Part C Dealings with third parties 8: Stakeholder relationships Network Rail must ensure that in its dealings with specified stakeholders, it acts efficiently and economically and in a timely manner with degree of skill, diligence, prudence and foresight. It must also cooperate with the Mayor of London and Transport for London on railway services, facilities and investment projects. It must publish how it will deal with its stakeholders. 9: Non-discrimination Requires Network Rail not to unduly discriminate between persons or parties. Part D Information requirements Network Rail has to provide us with information we need to carry out our functions. 11: Regulatory accounts Network Rail must provide us with information so that we can determine the licence holder's access charges and monitor its financial performance and financial position against our determination assumptions. Network Rail must prepare these statements in accordance with our Regulatory Accounting guidelines. Read more about regulatory accounts 12: Annual and periodic returns Network Rail must prepare an annual return by 1 July each year and make it available to the public on request within one calendar month of delivery to us. Network Rail must prepare and provide returns for each period not later than 21 days after the relevant period has ends. 13: Reporters Network Rail must comply with any Reporter Guidelines issued by ORR. The role of the Reporter is to provide us with independent, professional opinions and advice on data relating to Network Rail's provision of railway services, with a view to us relying upon those opinions or advice. 14: Restricted use of information -Network Rail should not authorise access to or disclose any person's protected information without their consent, other than to specified people. Part E Corporate matters 15: Governance This requires Network Rail to act as if it were a PLC with its Permitted Business (defined in part 2 of Network Rail's network licence) as its sole business. It must comply with FSA Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice and ensure that its board of directors contains a majority of non-executive directors, two of which must have substantial railway experience. 16: Management incentive plan-Requires Network Rail to have a management incentive plan. It must ensure that the level of remuneration of specified people, including directors, is expressly related to specified standards concerning their personal performance and Network Rail's performance to improve those standards. 17: Financial information Requires Network Rail to publish information in compliance with FSA rules. 18: Fees Network Rail is required to pay us an annual fee. 19: Change of control Network Rail must notify the Secretary of State and ORR if any person takes it over. Part F Standard industry obligations 20: Insurance Requires Network Rail to have insurance against third party liabilities on terms approved by us. 21: Claims allocation and handling Network Rail is required to be party to approved arrangements for handling claims against operators of railway assets and allocation of liabilities among operators of railway assets. 22: Safety and standards Network Rail must be a member of Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) and party to RSSB's constitution agreement. It must comply with Railway Group Standards. 23: Environment Network Rail is required to have an up to date written policy to protect the environment from licensed activities taking into account any guidance given by us. 24: Systems code Requires Network Rail to have a systems code which sets out arrangements for obtaining access to, using and developing computer systems for operating trains on the network. Further information 
file_873.txt|PR13 consultations Periodic review 2013 (PR13) consultations On this page you will find details of the closed consultations/opportunities to comment on PR13 related matters. Capacity charge baselines for freight, open access passenger and charter operators End of consultation: 23 Jan 2014 ORR and Network Rail joint periodic review 2013 (PR13) consultation on setting capacity charge baselines for control period 5 (CP5) for freight, open access and charter operators. Implementing PR13 - capacity charge End of consultation: 4 Nov 2013 This consultation sets out the specific changes to track access agreements that we proposed to make to implement our capacity charge policy options. The options were consulted on over the course of the summer and are explained in our consultation letter. Implementing the EC4T cost reconciliation End of consultation: 31 Oct 2013 This was a consultation on the principles of and changes to the contractual wording for the cost reconciliation (or "cost wash-up") for charges for electric current for traction (EC4T) as part of the 2013 periodic review (PR13). The aim of the proposed changes to the cost reconciliation formula was to better reflect tariff structure, in particular to allow EC4T delivery charges to be reconciled by electricity supply tariff area (ESTA). Implementing PR13 - charter operators End of consultation: 25 Oct 2013 This consultation set out the specific changes we proposed to make to charter track access agreements to implement our 2013 periodic review (PR13). These reflected the proposed decisions in our draft conclusions on structure of charges and Schedule 8 performance regime for charter operators, issued in September 2013. Capacity charge for freight operators End of consultation: 14 Oct 2013 This consultation set out our proposed conclusions for the capacity charge for freight operators in control period 5 (CP5), with reference to Rail Delivery Group (RDG)'s proposal. End of consultation: 30 Sep 2013 A consultation on our further thinking on the capacity charge, with a refinement of our proposed option. Draft conclusions on structure of charges and Schedule 8 performance regime for charter operators End of consultation: 20 Sep 2013 This consultation set out our draft conclusions in relation to charter operators as part of our 2013 periodic review (PR13), in respect of the structure of charges and performance regime. Implementing PR13 End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 This consultation set out the specific changes we proposed to make to track and station access agreements and Network Rail's network licence to implement our 2013 periodic review (PR13). Draft determination End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 Our draft determination set out our package of overall decisions on the 2013 periodic review (PR13) for consultation. It covered the outputs that Network Rail must deliver, the efficient cost of delivering those outputs, and the access charges the company can levy on train operators for using its network to recover those costs. Consultative letter expanding on the discussion of the capacity charge End of consultation: 4 Sep 2013 This letter expanded on the discussion of the capacity charge in chapter 16 of ORR's draft determination of Network Rail's outputs and funding and, in particular, on the proposal put forward by the Rail Freight Operators' Association (RFOA). End of consultation: 9 Aug 2013 This consultation sought views on possible changes in on-rail competition. Contingency planning for PR13 implementation End of consultation: 17 May 2013 This consultation sought the views of Network Rail and train operators on our proposed contingency plan in the event that there is a delay to the formal implementation of the 2013 periodic review (PR13). Electricity for traction charges for control period 5 End of consultation: 8 May 2013 This consultation covered charges for electric current for traction (EC4T), including assumed levels of transmission losses for CP5 and how we proposed to reform the volume wash-up. Freight specific charge for biomass End of consultation: 28 Mar 2013 This consultation set out our proposals for levying a freight specific charge on biomass. A freight specific charge balances payments for freight costs more fairly between businesses, taxpayers and passengers, recognising the wider benefits that rail freight brings against the costs of subsidising rail freight that would not otherwise travel by road. Network Rail's strategic business plan End of consultation: 19 Feb 2013 In January 2013, we sought stakeholders' views on Network Rail's SBP to help inform our review of the SBP ahead of our draft determination in June 2013. Volume incentive End of consultation: 5 Feb 2013 This consultation set out our package of proposals to improve the effectiveness of the volume incentive. These proposals relate to its design and payment rates. The volume incentive is a payment to Network Rail which encourages it to be more responsive to unexpected demand for use of network capacity over and above an agreed level. End of consultation: 28 Jan 2013 Consultation on Schedules 4 and 8 possessions and performance regimes. Network Rail's output framework for 2014-19 End of consultation: 28 Sep 2012 This consultation sought views on what Network Rail would need to deliver in 2014-19 (control period 5). It covered the 'output framework' - the outputs we would set Network Rail, the main indicators we would use to monitor the company and the enablers (measures of Network Rail's capability to deliver). Financial issues for Network Rail in CP5 End of consultation: 26 Sep 2012 This consultation sought views on detailed issues relating to the financial framework that would apply to Network Rail in CP5, as determined through PR13. Variable usage charge and a freight specific charge End of consultation: 10 Aug 2012 This consultation sought views on our proposals relating to the variable usage charge paid by passenger and freight operators and our proposals to introduce a freight specific charge in control period 5. Aligning incentives to improve efficiency End of consultation: 12 Jul 2012 This consultation set out further detailed proposals relating to the alignment of incentives between Network Rail and train operators to improve cost efficiency. Incentives End of consultation: 8 Feb 2012 This document set out for consultation our thinking on what we wished to achieve through PR13 and how we expected to use the incentive tools available to us to do this. End of consultation: 4 Dec 2011 This consultation asked for stakeholder views on the potential for increased on-rail competition. Establishing Network Rail's efficient expenditure End of consultation: 14 Oct 2011 The purpose of this document was to: (a) explain our approach to establishing the level of efficient expenditure for CP5, including the methods we intend to use, the range of studies we intend to undertake and the work Network Rail will do; and (b) seek views on our proposed approach. First PR13 consultation End of consultation: 2 Sep 2011 In May 2011, we issued our first main consultation on the 2013 periodic review (PR13). A periodic review is a programme of work through which decisions are made on what outputs Network Rail should deliver and the levels of access charges payable by train operators and other sources of funding the company receives. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_931.txt|2010 speeches and articles Speeches given by senior members of the ORR staff in 2010. The presentation slides of a speech given by John Thomas, director, railway markets and economics, at the Future of Rail conference 2010. 18 Nov 2010 The presentation slides of a speech given by Bill Emery, chief executive, at the Future of Rail conference 2010. 18 Nov 2010 The presentation slides of a speech given by Bill Emery, chief executive, at the Oxera Utility Finance Group. 11 Nov 2010 The presentation slides of a speech given by Bill Emery, chief executive, at the Water UK - Investing in Infrastructure Conference 2010. 28 Sep 2010 The presentation slides of a speech given by Anna Walker, chair, at the National Rail conference 2010. 8 Jul 2010 
file_228.txt|02 Dec 2014 ~ Medical Device Alerts - monthly lists and yearly reviews A month-by-month list of MDAs that we have issued in 2014, and lists of archived MDAs. 26 Nov 2014 ~ Medical Device Alert: Mains power lead used with Omnifuse syringe pumps (all models).Part number 0151-0651. Manufactured by Smiths Medical International Ltd. (MDA/2014/044) This medical device alert is being issued due to the risk of interruption or delay in therapy due to incorrect design of the mains lead supplied by Smiths Medical. 25 Nov 2014 ~ Medical Device Alert: Gel-E Donut and Squishon 2 neonatal and paediatric support devices manufactured by Philips Healthcare (Children’s Medical Ventures) (MDA/2014/043) This MDA has been issued due to the risk of infection, breathing difficulties and allergic reactions. 03 Nov 2014 ~ Medical Device Alert: Hudson RCI© nebulizer adaptors and Aquapak sterile water with nebulizer adaptors manufactured by Teleflex Medical (MDA/2014/042) This MDA has been issued due to the risk of the packaging of these devices not being sealed properly. 
file_748.txt|Criteria & procedures Criteria & procedures for the approval of track access contracts This page contains the industry standard document that sets out the criteria and procedures we follow in processing applications for track access contracts and the details we expect applicants to provide. It also provides a link to the guidance we have drafted for potential entrants to main line railway operations. This document sets out the criteria and procedures we expect to follow in processing applications for track access contracts. For previous policy decisions and workstreams related to the C&Ps, please see the policy and document archive on the National archives website . If you have any questions, please contact us . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_12.txt|Closing a scheme Raising awareness about automatic enrolment Your workers are likely to have heard about automatic enrolment through the media and will probably want to know how the changes will affect them. So it’s a good idea to be prepared for any questions they might have. We have a range of materials to help you communicate the changes to your staff. On this page Frequently asked questions Key points There's more you can do to help your workers understand automatic enrolment into a workplace pension than simply providing them with the written communication required by law. As the employer, you're an important and effective channel of communication for your staff throughout the automatic enrolment process. The information you present to them can have a real impact. A range of key messages across a number of channels works best - keep them short and simple. Key messages to communicate to your staff The message about employer and government contributions gains attention, as do facts and figures. Read the Department for Work and Pension's key messages . Messages around why saving for retirement is important can help engage staff with the subject of workplace pensions. Staff appreciate an explanation of what automatic enrolment means for them. For example, information about how much they'll contribute and when. Details of where staff can find out more, either in your organisation or in the workplace and personal pensions information on GOV.UK are helpful. There are a number of ways you can communicate these messages. A few examples are below. Back to top Online articles Intranet or newsletter articles can be used at various times. Use any or all of the text in the examples, keep them short, and explain where to find out more. Read news in brief (RTF, 11.5kb, 1 page) for suggestions on what to put on your intranet or in a newsletter. You can find more comprehensive content in the intranet article (RTF, 204kb, 2 pages) or newsletter article (RTF, 29.2kb, 2 pages) . Back to top Text or email Text messages or emails are quick ways of letting staff know when automatic enrolment is happening in your organisation. Read the suggestions for text and email alerts (RTF, 38kb, 1 page) . If you use email, there is a risk that the server may file it into the ‘junk email’ folder, so we don’t recommend you rely solely on email as a method of communication. Back to top Posters Posters help raise awareness of automatic enrolment - download the poster template (Word, 1.87mb, 1 page) , which allows you to include your own information too. Frequently asked questions Frequently asked questions can answer initial queries from your staff about automatic enrolment into a workplace pension: 
file_491.txt|Train operator companies Train Operating Companies (TOCs) run rail passenger services, leasing and managing stations from Network Rail. TOCs are the consumer face of the rail industry, and generally apply for franchises to run specific routes from the Department for Transport. They normally lease trains from rolling stock companies. Association of Train Operating Companies (ATOC) The companies are represented by the Association of Train Operating Companies (ATOC), an industry body that helps to communicate their opinions to stakeholders, government and the media. 
file_874.txt|ORR responses to consultations issued by other organisations ORR responses to consultations issued by other organisations This page lists our responses to the consultations issued by other organisations. ORR response to the transport select committee consultation on effectiveness of legislation relating to transport for disabled people pdf icon PDF, 289 Kb 30 Jan 2013 ORR response to the Health and Safety Executive consultation on proposals to revise the Health and Safety (First-Aid) Regulations 1981 (as amended) pdf icon PDF, 80 Kb 29 Nov 2012 ORR response to the Health and Safety Executive consultative document (CD243) on proposals to revise the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 (as amended) pdf icon PDF, 48 Kb 25 Oct 2012 ORR response to the Health and Safety Executive consultation document (CD242) on proposals to exempt some self-employed people from health and safety legislation pdf icon PDF, 44 Kb 15 Oct 2012 ORR response to the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee consultation on the abolition of the Disabled Persons Transport Advisory Committee (DPTAC) and the best option for successor arrangements should DPTAC be abolished pdf icon PDF, 777 Kb 14 Sep 2012 ORR response to the Health and Safety Executive's consultation on proposals to review their approved codes of practice pdf icon PDF, 64 Kb 13 Sep 2012 ORR response to the Department for Transport's initial consultation on rail fares and ticketing review pdf icon PDF, 170 Kb 28 Jun 2012 ORR response to the Department for Business Innovation and Skills consultation on institutional changes for provision of consumer information, advice, education, advocacy and enforcement pdf icon PDF, 75 Kb 29 Sep 2011 
file_402.txt|New to health and safety? COSHH and printers - key messages Printing products like inks, lacquers, adhesives, cleaning solvents and others contain ingredients that are hazardous to health. You can breathe in vapours and mists. Products can get on your skin and cause skin problems or go through your skin and cause damage elsewhere. Problems can occur if exposure to hazardous substances is not controlled. Solvents and inks can irritate the skin  leading to dermatitis. Some products can cause skin allergies and  asthma (eg UV inks, laminating adhesives). Some solvent vapours can make you dizzy,  drowsy and affect your central nervous system. Some ingredients can cause damage to internal  organs over a long period of time (eg liver and kidney damage). Some products are corrosive and can cause  skin burns and eye damage (eg plate developers). Preventing exposure to harmful substances usually means a combination of some of the following: Provide good general ventilation of the  workroom. Enclose the process as far as possible and  when necessary extract harmful vapours and mists. Avoid contact with harmful substances and  minimise leaks and spills. You may also need to provide personal  protective equipment like respirators, gloves and eye protection. Practise good hand care â€“ remove  contamination promptly, wash hands properly, dry thoroughly and use skin  creams regularly. The controls you need depend on the printing process, the products used and the tasks undertaken. Visit the HSE printing web pages for more specific detailed information on the controls needed for a range of tasks carried out during common printing processes. You can find more information on the COSSH essentials for printers web pages . Resources 
file_754.txt|Freight terminals Freight terminals Do you want to establish a freight terminal? This page will help you with the things you need to know. Licensing The operator of the freight terminal operator will probably need a network licence exemption. See our licensing section. Connection contracts The facility owner will normally need a connection to the national rail network though some new terminals connect via another party's infrastructure. The arrangements for supporting a connection should be set out in contract known as a connection contract. We have developed a model connection contract for connecting to Network Rail's network. Contracts using this model are covered by a general approval. The model connection contract can be readily adapted for other networks as necessary but they need our specific approval. If you cannot agree terms then you may be able to submit it to us for a decision. See our connection contracts web page. Facility access agreements Freight train operators who want to use a facility will need to enter into an agreement with the facility owner, known as a Facilities Access Agreement. This is explained on our freight access web page. Light maintenance depots If your terminal includes facilities for the provision of light maintenance services it will be classified as a light maintenance depot (LMD) and additional rules will apply. See our licensing and depot access web pages. Class exemption At privatisation in 1994 certain named sites and types of freight terminal and LMD were exempted from the licensing and access provisions of the Railways Act 1993. Before you apply for a licence exemption or submit an access agreement you should check to see if you are already exempted from the requirements by virtue of the Railways (Class and Miscellaneous) Exemptions Order 1994 (the CMEO). Please note that the CMEO does not apply to any connection contract involving Network Rail. Also the Railway Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 will still apply. Contact us As you will see there are potentially several regulatory issues for you to consider when developing a rail linked facility. We recommend that you talk to us, with any network owners that you need to connect to, at an early stage. You can email us at: track.access@orr.gsi.gov.uk . Network Rail has more detailed guidance on its website . Further information 
file_162.txt|Downloads Downloads Information about the Yellow Card Scheme, how to report and reporting forms to print out may be downloaded. 
file_588.txt|Reporting occupational diseases Reporting occupational diseases Advice on what railway industry occupational health diseases that must be reported to us under RIDDOR can be found on this page. The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 (RIDDOR 2013) require that a diagnosis of an occupational disease, occupational cancer, or disease due to occupational exposure to a biological agent must be reported to the relevant enforcing authority. We are the enforcing authority for the railways, tramways and other guided transport systems. This includes associated infrastructure (permanent way area/area on or about the track), railway vehicles, stations (including platforms), signal boxes and office buildings. The following occupational diseases are reportable to us under RIDDOR 2013 in relation to a person at work: Carpal  Tunnel Syndrome, where the person's work involves regular use of percussive (repeated impact) or vibrating tools. Cramp  in the hand or forearm, where the person's work involves prolonged periods of repetitive movement of the fingers, hand or arm. Occupational  dermatitis, where the person's work involves significant or regular exposure to a known skin sensitizer or irritant. Hand-arm  vibration syndrome ("HAVS"), where the person's work involves regular use of percussive or vibrating tools, or the holding of materials which are subject to percussive processes, or processes causing vibration. Occupational  asthma, where the person's work involves significant or regular exposure to a known respiratory sensitizer. Tendonitis  or tenosynovitis in the hand or forearm, where the person's work is physically demanding and involves frequent, repetitive movements. You must also report the following if a diagnosis is received in relation to the person at work: any cancer attributed to an occupational exposure to a known human carcinogen or mutagen (including ionising radiation); or any disease attributed to an occupational exposure to a biological agent, Reports must be sent to us without delay (typically within 10 calendar days of the responsible person receiving a diagnosis from a registered medical practitioner) using: the Rail Safety and Standards Board's (RSSB) Safety Management Information System (SMIS) if you are a mainline railway duty holder; or London Underground's Safety and Environment Analysis database (LUSEA) if you are London Underground. However, any incident which results or could have resulted in the release of a biological agent likely to cause severe human infection or illness (for example Legionella) must be reported to us immediately by using the procedure for reporting serious injuries, serious dangerous occurrences and fatalities . Further guidance on reporting occupational diseases is available in Chapter 7 of our guidance on RIDDOR 2013 pdf icon PDF, 882 Kb . Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_661.txt|Efficient expenditure workshop Efficient expenditure workshop On this page you will find the agenda and the presentation slides of the PR13 efficient expenditure workshop held on 21 September 2012 and details of a subsequent workshop held on 26 October 2012. On 26 July 2011 we published a consultation on establishing Network Rail's efficient expenditure , which closed on 14 October 2011. The purpose of the document was to explain our approach to establishing the level of efficient expenditure for Network Rail in CP5, including the methods we intended to use, the range of studies we intended to undertake and the work Network Rail would do itself. The consultation covered topics including: Support and operations expenditure Maintenance and renewals expenditure September 2011 workshop We held a workshop on 21 September 2011. The workshop consisted of a number of sessions to discuss the issues raised in our consultation. The overall purpose of the day was to recap on the key proposals we set out in the consultation and provide an opportunity for you to question us and have a wider discussion on the proposals and issues raised. Download the agenda pdf icon PDF, 37 Kb and presentation pdf icon PDF, 265 Kb from this event. October 2012 workshop We held a workshop on 26 October 2012 to update industry stakeholders on the progress of our work on assessing the efficient levels of expenditure for Network Rail, including how we were planning to assess efficient expenditure elements of the strategic business plan, ahead of its publication by Network Rail  in January 2013. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_883.txt|New disputed contracts (Section 17) New disputed contracts (Section 17) This page contains all ORR decisions made in the last six months relating to contested applications for new Track Access Contracts. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . Date 
file_59.txt|If you set up and run work-based personal pensions for your clients, you have certain duties. You should also be aware of how The Pensions Regulator and Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulate work-based personal pensions. Share this page using: 
file_926.txt|Speeches and articles Our speeches and articles profile a selection of our decisions and activities. As the economic and health and safety regulator for Britain's railways it is essential that we explain effectively our position on key issues and vision for the future. Speeches and articles provide an opportunity to keep in touch with our stakeholders and members of the public – and to ensure that our activities remain transparent and accountable. This will help to ensure that the sector understands what the regulator requires and continues to provide ever-improving value for customers, funders and taxpayers. Our five latest speeches and articles are shown below. Speech given by Richard Price, Chief executive, to the Future of Rail conference. 26 Nov 2014 ORR is conducting a review of how retailers sell rail tickets. 30 Sep 2014 Speech given by Elise Weeder, Head of Regulatory Economics to the RFG AGM and annual policy meeting 10 Sep 2014 Article written by Ian Prosser - Director, railway safety. 18 Aug 2014 Speech given by Anna Walker, Chair, to the Rail Freight Group Conference. 4 Jun 2014 
file_329.txt|
file_178.txt|Home Search & Help Frequently asked questions Frequently asked questions about the MHRA About the Agency 1. What does the MHRA do? The MHRA is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in the UK by ensuring they work and are acceptably safe. <Back to top > 2. How does the MHRA regulate medicines and medical devices? Underpinning all our work lie robust and fact-based judgements to ensure that the benefits justify any risks. This is achieved through: authorising before medicines are marketed, taking both their safety and effectiveness into account ensuring clinical trails meet robust standards and safeguard patient’s interests inspecting the quality of medicines as manufactured and distributed overseeing UK Notified Bodies that audit medical device manufacturers encouraging everyone to report suspected problems with both medicines and devices and then investigating these reports Investigating, and prosecuting where necessary, cases of non-compliance including advertising claims. 3. What does the MHRA not control? The MHRA does not regulate cosmetics, food, controlled drugs and veterinary medicines. 4. Is the  MHRA part of the NHS? No. It is one of the agencies of the Department of Health (external link). <Back to top > 5. How does the Agency ensure its staff are not biased in their evaluations? Each member of staff completes a declaration of interest and their manager must ensure they do not do work which might be compromised by that interest. From November 2005 all staff and immediate members of their families are not allowed any financial or other interests in the industry. <Back to top > 6. How is the MHRA funded? The costs of medicines regulations are met by fees from the pharmaceutical industry. In contrast, the funding of device regulation is from the Department of Health (external link). <Back to top > 7. How do I make payments to the MHRA? The details of the MHRA's bank accounts to be used when remitting payment of your invoice/s or in advance of your application/s are available in our bank account details section <Back to top > 8. Why does the MHRA accept money from pharmaceutical industry? Isn’t this a conflict of interest? Companies have to pay a fee for their marketing authorisation but we don’t seek business from them. Any complex licensing decisions are referred to the Agency’s independent advisory committees. These members must register any interests they have in the industry. They must declare any specific ones and take no part in discussions on that subject. 9. Surely this means that the licensing of medicines is subsidising the regulation of medical devices? No. There is no cross subsidy between the funding for medicines and devices. The regulation of medicines and medical devices 10. How are devices approved by the MHRA and how does this differ from medicines approval? The MHRA does not 'approve' medical devices of any class. Class I registration is purely an administrative measure; Class I CE-marking is based on self certification by the manufacturer. Medium and high risk devices, and those Class I medical devices supplied sterile or which have a measuring function require the intervention of a Notified Body to carry out a compliance assessment and issue a CE certificate before manufacturers can place their products on the market. The licensing of medicines is based on the submission of data to the MHRA (or the European Medicines Agency (EMA) (external link) for a single Community-wide authorisation) who will perform an assessment before reaching a decision as to whether to grant or refuse a licence. A licence must be granted before the product can be placed on the market. <Back to top > 11. What is the difference between the MHRA and the EMA? Most new types of medicine are licensed by European Medicines Agency (EMA) (external link), to ensure that it is available to, and used in the same way, across all the member states of the European Union (EU). The breast cancer treatment Herceptin and the antiviral medicine Tamiflu are some examples. Any medicine licensed by the EMA is valid across all EU member states whereas a licence issued by the MHRA is valid in the UK only. <Back to top > 12. Why do more side effects show up after the medicine has been licensed? At the time of licensing a medicine will only have been tested in a relatively small number of patients and rare side effects may not be detected. When it is used in normal clinical practice, much larger numbers of patients are exposed in a less-controlled environment and unexpected, rarer and sometimes serious side effects may be seen for the first time. We monitor the safety of all medicines in routine clinical practice throughout their marketed life to identify any new safety issues. <Back to top > 13. Surely if medicines are regulated properly then they ought to be safe? No medicine is risk free. We will know about some of the risks when we license a medicine but some risks will not be known about until later. If we refused a licence because a medicine had some risk or other associated with it, there would be very few useful medicines available. Many medicines bring great benefit to patients; we weigh these benefits against the known risks when we license them. If the benefits justify the risks we license the medicine. And we make sure that people are informed about the risks so they can make their own minds up. <Back to top > 14. What sanctions does the MHRA have against companies that break the rules? The Agency prosecutes individuals or companies that break the law. If found guilty they can receive a maximum of two years imprisonment, with an unlimited fine at the judge’s discretion. 
file_728.txt|HS1 periodic reviews and access charges reviews HS1 periodic reviews and access charges reviews This page sets out our role in periodic reviews, including the current 2014 periodic review (PR14). This page also sets out our role in interim access charges reviews. Periodic reviews Under regulation 13 of the Railways Infrastructure (Access and Management) Regulations 2005 , we have to ensure that High Speed 1 (HS1) Limited is provided with incentives to reduce the cost of allowing access to its infrastructure and level of access charges. We perform this function through periodic reviews in the manner set out in the concession agreement . PR14 , which was the first periodic review for HS1 Limited, covers the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2020, control period 2 (CP2). Read more about PR14 Access charges reviews Under the terms of the concession agreement, interim access charges reviews may take place at any time outside the usual periodic review cycle. 
file_382.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_322.txt|Accessibility statement Accessibility statement We are committed and actively working to ensure orr.gov.uk is usable and accessible to the widest possible audience, regardless of disability, capability or technology. Our intention is to conform to the Guidelines for UK government websites, which support the W3C's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, Level AA. This accessibility statement applies only to the Office of Rail Regulation website at www.orr.gov.uk . This policy does not apply to any other site. Adobe Acrobat PDF format Most of our PDF files published on our website after January 2010 have been tagged to allow basic accessibility; previous PDFs will be tagged as resources allow. If you have a particular request for a PDF to be optimised for accessibility then please contact the web team. PDF files can be read using Adobe Reader software, which is available for many different computer systems including Windows, Macintosh, Linux and Palm. Visit the Adobe website to obtain the Adobe Reader software . For more information about PDF accessibility see the Adobe website accessibility section . Microsoft Word and Excel formats Microsoft documents and spread sheets can still be read even if you have not bought the commercial Word and Excel programs. Microsoft offer a range of free 'viewer' programs for download; however, these programs are only available for Windows systems. Word and Excel viewers are available from the Microsoft website . Get help 
file_580.txt|Occupational health quarterly updates Quarterly updates for the rail industry on ORR's health programme We produce a quarterly updates for the rail industry on key occupational health issues. We include guidance on legal compliance, good practice, and new health resources. Each update contains key messages for rail duty holders on current health management topics, which ORR inspectors may use to inform discussions on occupational health during inspection and/or routine liaison meetings. Download the latest occupational health programme update pdf icon PDF, 160 Kb October 2014 We have covered a range of health risk management topics including, for example, legionella, asbestos, diesel engine exhaust fumes, work related stress, musculoskeletal risk, hand arm vibration, as well as broader issues such as rail manager competence on health. We also aim to share existing good practice and alert you to new relevant health resources. You can also subscribe to receive direct email notification when new updates are published. Subscribe to ORR's occupational health programme update service Index of key health topics covered in occupational health programme updates Health risk management in rail industry – June 2011, April 2012, July 2012, July 2013, October 2013, January 2014, May 2014, July 2014 Health risk assessment – April 2011, September 2011, July 2013, October 2013, January 2014, July 2014 Manager competence on health – July 2012, April 2013, January 2014 Workforce involvement on health – March 2011, September 2011, January 2013, January 2014 Substances hazardous to health Asbestos – July 2012, January 2014, July 2014 Silica – December 2011, January 2013, April 2013, January 2014, July 2014 Diesel engine exhaust emissions – October 2012, April 13, July 2014 Lead – October 2013, October 2014 Welding fume - May 2014 
file_976.txt|Ofqual is consulting on proposals to change how GCSE science practicals are assessed. 15 December 2014 — Consultation outcome We are considering removing the 'Regulatory Arrangements for the Qualifications and Credit Framework (QCF)'. 26 November 2014 — Speech Ofqual's Chief Regulator gave a speech on A level reform to Westminster Education Forum. 26 November 2014 — News story A quick guide on where to find our content on GOV.UK and how to access our archived content. 7 November 2014 — Open consultation Proposals for the new religious studies GCSE, AS and A level qualifications due be taught from 2016 Latest 
file_763.txt|New agreed contracts (Section 18) New agreed contracts (Section 18) This page contains all ORR decisions made in the last six months relating to agreed applications for new Track Access Contracts. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . Date 
file_617.txt|Case studies Health case studies Case studies that show examples of good practice in managing railway workers health are set out below. If you know of other examples, please contact us . Other helpful information on managing work place health during construction projects has been published by the Olympic Delivery Authority and is available as micro reports . There is a full report on occupational health provision . The Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) have a 'Li£e Savings' campaign to encourage better health and safety management. This includes a range of case studies . Further help and information can be found on HSE's website on these and other health issues. Case studies 
file_245.txt|We produce a wide range of documents which provide guidance on safety issues concerning medicinces and medical devices. Latest safety guidance publications 17 Dec 2014 ~ Drug Safety Update: Volume 8, Issue 5, December 2014 (104Kb) Drug Safety Update is essential reading for all healthcare professionals, bringing you the very latest information and advice to support the safer use of medicines. 16 Dec 2014 ~ HES letter sent to HCPs Nov 2014 (1116Kb) Drug Safety Update is essential reading for all healthcare professionals, bringing you the very latest information and advice to support the safer use of medicines. 17 Nov 2014 ~ Drug Safety Update: Volume 8, Issue 4, November 2014 (102Kb) Drug Safety Update is essential reading for all healthcare professionals, bringing you the very latest information and advice to support the safer use of medicines. 
file_289.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_443.txt|Who we are Who we are As an independent regulator, ORR operates within the framework set by UK and EU legislation and is accountable through Parliament and the courts. We are an independent statutory body, with powers vested by Parliament in our board. The ORR board consists of ten members: six non-executives (including a non-executive chair) and three executive directors. All members of the board are appointed by the Secretary of State for Transport, for a fixed term of up to five years. ORR is a non-ministerial government department with around 280 staff and a budget of about £30m each year.  We are funded by the rail industry. Our staff work from six offices across Britain, giving us the flexibility and coverage we need to perform our functions efficiently. Many of our people work  away from the office, for example by conducting on-site inspections across the rail network. Executive directors Our staff  are organised into eight directorates and led by a team of executive directors. The directorates are: 
file_323.txt|Information charter Using our website The Office of Rail Regulation website is maintained for your personal use and viewing. Access and use by you of this site constitutes acceptance by you of these Terms and Conditions that take effect from the date of first use. We may alter these terms and conditions at any time. Please remember that the information on these pages can only provide general guidance and should not be read as a substitute for the law. ORR will always try to ensure that all material on these pages is accurate but we cannot guarantee that it will be free from error at all times. Intellectual property The names, images and logos identifying the Office of Rail Regulation, are proprietary marks of the Office of Rail Regulation. Copying our logos and/or any other third party logos accessed via this website is not permitted without prior approval from the relevant copyright owner. Requests for permission to use our logo should be directed to us. Please contact us. Tell us how and why your wish to use our logo(s). Please include your contact details name, address, telephone number, fax number and email. Crown Copyright © Crown copyright, 2010. The material featured on this website is subject to Crown copyright protection unless otherwise indicated. You may use and reuse the information featured on this website (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under the terms of the Open Government Licence . We encourage users to establish hypertext links to this website. Any enquiries regarding the use and re-use of this information resource should be sent to email: psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk Third party content The permission to reproduce Crown copyright material does not extend to any material on this website which is identified as being the copyright of a third party. Authorisation to reproduce such material would need to be obtained from the copyright holders concerned. Hyperlinking to us at the Office of Rail Regulation You do not have to ask permission to link directly to pages hosted on this site. We do not object to you linking directly to the information that is hosted on our site. However, we do not permit our pages to be loaded into frames on your site. The Office of Rail Regulation pages must load into the user's entire window. Hyperlinking by us at the Office of Rail Regulation It is our policy to obtain permission to link to other websites. We are not responsible for the content or reliability of the linked websites. Listing should not be taken as endorsement of any kind. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all of the time and we have no control over the availability of linked pages. Virus protection We make every effort to check and test material at all stages of production. It is always wise for you to run an anti-virus program on all material downloaded from the Internet. We cannot accept any responsibility for any loss, disruption or damage to your data or your computer system which may occur whilst using material derived from this website. Privacy statement Site usage information The Office of Rail Regulation uses Google Analytics to measure and analyse information about the use of this website. The analytics tool uses cookies to provide statistical information about visits to pages and other information relating to usage of this website including the IP address of visitors and data about your browser type and computer operating system. The information gathered does not contain any personal information about you. The regulator's web team uses the information provided by Google Analytics to make informed decisions about future website developments. Further information about Google Analytics, is available at http://www.google.com/analytics . More about cookies A cookie is a small file that contains a unique, anonymous number. It does not contain any personal information. A cookie is stored on your computer when you visit a website and is used to recognise any repeat visits that you make to that site. The cookie cannot be used to identify you on websites of third parties. It is possible to configure your web browser to refuse cookies or to be informed if a cookie is set. Please refer to your web browser help files for instructions. Log files The regulator's web team periodically analyses the log files for this website. Log files contain data about visitor's use of this website, including IP addresses. Log files do not contain any personal information about you. Information charter ORR handles information in accordance with Cabinet Office protective marking guidelines. Protective markings are labels applied to information to show: the correct level of protection the information has; the processes to be followed for handling that information; and the severity of impact should the information be lost or inappropriately transmitted. ORR is bound by the principles of the Data Protection Act 1998. Personal data is protected within ORR according to Cabinet Office guidelines. If ORR receives a request for information which constitutes personal data, then the ORR would treat the request as a subject access request under the Data Protection Act 1998. Generally, the ORR is not obliged, under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 or the Data Protection Act 1998, to disclose any information which is personal data relating to another individual. Under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, members of the public have the right to request access to information held by ORR. ORR believes that it is in the public interest to make information readily accessible and for it to be subject to public scrutiny. If members of the public have any concerns about the handling of information at ORR, they should contact the customer correspondence team who can be contacted as follows: Customer correspondence team 
file_273.txt|Manufacturer's and wholesale dealer's licences Licence type Manufacturer’s/importer’s licence (MIA) Allows the holder to: manufacture and/or assemble (package) medicinal products wholesale deal licensed medicinal products imported from countries outside the EEA Manufacturer 'specials' licence (MS) manufacture unlicensed medicinal products (commonly referred to as 'specials') import unlicensed medicinal products from outside the EEA Manufacturer investigational medicinal products (MIAIMP) Allows the holder to manufacture investigational medicinal products used in clinical trials Hospital exemption licence: Manufacturer’s Licence - Exempt Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (MeAT) Allows the holder to: manufacture exempt Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products on a non routine basis for use in hospitals in the UK. Full wholesale dealer licence (WL) Allows the holder to wholesale deal pharmacy (P), prescription only (POM) traditional herbal medicinal products (THMP) and General Sale List (GSL) medicines Wholesale dealer (GSL) licence (WDL) Allows the holder to wholesale deal General Sale List (GSL) medicines only Veterinary products Manufacturer’s/importer’s authorisation (ManA) Allows the holder to: manufacture and/or assemble (package) medicinal products wholesale deal licensed medicinal products imported from countries outside the EEA Manufacturer 'specials' authorisation (ManSA) Allows the holder to manufacture unlicensed medicinal products (commonly referred to as 'specials') Wholesale dealer authorisation (WDA) Allows the holder to wholesale deal (POM-V), (POM-VPS), (NFA-VPS), (AVM-GSL) medicines Application forms Completed application forms should be sent to: Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency Process Licensing pcl@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Legislation The Medicines Act 1968 and its supporting regulations have been consolidated in The Human Medicines Regulations 2012 [SI 2012/1916]. The coming into force of this Regulation means that the following MHRA Guidance Notes are currently inaccurate concerning legislative references. The following Guidance Notes are under review: Guidance Note 13 - A guidance note on manufacturer’s licences authorising a non-orthodox practitioner to mix and assemble unlicensed medicinal products Interpretation of legislation The MHRA Inspection, Enforcement and Standards Division is responsible for ensuring compliance with the standards that apply to the manufacture and supply of medicines on the UK market. The Inspection, Enforcement and Standards Division’s Regulatory Advice Unit advises on the interpretation of the law relevant to inspection and standards as well as developing policy on manufacturing and wholesaling of medicinal products. The Inspection, Enforcement and Standards Division’s Regulatory Advice Unit  are also a focus for contributions and comments on European legislative proposals concerning manufacturing and wholesale distribution of medicinal products for human use and their introduction when adopted into UK law. For further information, please contact our Regulatory Advice Unit, MHRA, 5 Magenta, 151 Buckingham Palace Road, Victoria, London, SW1W 9SZ, fax 020 7084 2439, email info@mhra.gsi.gov.uk MHRA guidance MHRA guidance note 5: Notes for applicants and holders of a manufacturer’s licence (193Kb) This guidance note has been published to assist applicants and holders of a Manufacturer’s Licence and outline the key obligations for maintaining the licence. MHRA guidance note 6: Notes for applicants and holders of a wholesale dealer’s licence (WDA(H)) or broker registration (378Kb) This guidance note has been published to assist applicants and holders of a wholesale dealer’s licence (WDA(H)) or broker registration and outline the key obligations for maintaining the licence/registration. MHRA Guidance note 14: The supply of unlicensed medicinal products ('specials') (364Kb) This guidance note provides advice on the manufacture, importation, distribution and supply of unlicensed medicinal products for human use (commonly described as "specials") which have been specially manufactured or imported to the order of a doctor, dentist, nurse independent prescriber, pharmacist independent prescriber or supplementary prescriber for the treatment of individual patients. Best practice for ensuring the efficient supply and distribution of medicines to patients (78Kb) This guidance has been developed and is supported by eleven organisations, including the MHRA, following detailed consideration of the current problems with the supply chain, especially those caused by increased exports of medicines from the UK. 
file_108.txt|Independent trustee register Submitting recovery plans It is the trustees’ duty to agree the recovery plan with the sponsoring employer and to submit it to the regulator. You can use our Exchange online service to submit the recovery plan. Access our online service Exchange. On this page When and how to create a recovery plan For more details about agreeing recovery plans, go to recovery plans . Back to top Information you need to submit When you submit a recovery plan using Exchange you need to select either the 'new' or 'amend' option. You should only select 'amend' if you want to amend an existing recovery plan that you have previously sent us through Exchange. All 'amend' submissions must have the same valuation date as the recovery plan that the submission is amending. You will also be asked to: confirm the identity of the scheme's actuary and provide their contact details select a trustee to be the contact point for the recovery plan and ensure that they have registered their current email address and telephone number on Exchange fill out a breakdown of annual recovery plan contributions up to a maximum of 20 years confirm whether independent advice has been obtained on the employer covenant for the valuation and recovery plan being submitted – this is a ‘yes / no’ question and you don't need to provide a copy of covenant advice when making your online submission (though we may request a copy later) attach the scheme’s statement of funding principles as a PDF attach the scheme’s statement of investment principles as a PDF – if you’re exempt from producing a statement of investment principles you don’t need to submit this document. If you provide this information, it will help prevent the need for us to ask you for additional information. Providing us with the additional contact details will also allow us, in the majority of cases, to communicate the outcome of our review of the recovery plan by email to the relevant trustee and the scheme actuary. We send all emails securely and details of the outcome of the review are in an attached document. You will need a password to access the document which we send in a separate email. Back to top Consumer Prices Index The Government introduced new rules to move to using the Consumer Prices Index (CPI) rather than the Retail Prices Index (RPI) to calculate inflation-linked statutory revaluation and pension increases. However, it also confirmed that it won’t introduce a statutory power to amend scheme rules to allow schemes to use CPI as the basis for revaluation and indexation of members’ benefits in cases where the scheme rules do not already contain such a power. You may want to take legal advice if you are uncertain how the changes affect your scheme. We can’t advise on the effect of the changes on any particular scheme, as this depends on the wording of the scheme rules. As part of the scheme funding regime and associated processes, you must provide us with a summary of the actuarial valuation, which amongst other things includes the principal assumptions on which the calculation of the technical provisions have been based. You also need to provide details of the CPI assumption. 
file_466.txt|Rail infrastructure Rail infrastructure The rail infrastructure in the UK is complex and comprises of a number of different bodies. Not only do we regulate the mainline railway, we are also the health and safety regulator for a number of other forms of transport that run on rail. Mainline network 
file_489.txt|Industry organisations Industry organisations A summary of the different railway industry companies and organisations we work with as part of our role as the safety and economic regulator of Britain's railways. Network Rail – the rail infrastructure owner and operator. Freight operating companies – who operate freight trains. Freight customers – who have a direct interest in rail freight, but do not operate trains. Rolling stock companies – who own and lease trains to train operating companies. Rail Delivery Group – responsible for coordinating and leading on cross industry initiatives. Last updated - 22 December 2014 
file_668.txt|PR13 publications Periodic review 2013 (PR13) publications On this web page you will find a list of all periodic review 2013 (PR13) publications. In this section: Guide to the route level efficiency benefit sharing (REBS) mechanism in control period 5 (CP5) 16/04/2014 Publication of capacity charge baselines in CP5 pdf icon PDF, 77 Kb 10/02/2014 Note on error in CP5 freight operator and charter operator payment rates calculations pdf icon PDF, 168 Kb 06/02/2014 
file_371.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_126.txt|A quick guide to paying contributions to personal and DC occupational pension schemes (PDF, 51kb) Published: June 2013 Find out how to set up your scheme correctly and understand what contributions you and your staff have to pay and when they must be paid by. Guide to the regulation of workplace defined contribution pensions (PDF, 132kb, 12 pages) Published: March 2014 The Pensions Regulator and the Financial Conduct Authority have jointly developed this guide to provide an overview of how workplace defined contribution pensions are regulated to protect the interests of consumers. Public service pension guides If you're involved in managing pension schemes in the public sector, see our public service pension guides . Share this page using: 
file_362.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_997.txt|This site uses cookies to help make it more useful and reliable. Our cookies & privacy page explains what they are, and how you can manage them. 
file_775.txt|Forms, model contracts and general approvals Track access forms, model contracts and general approvals This page contains the standard application forms and model contracts to be used when applying for access to Network Rail's infrastructure or to connect to its network. Please use these application forms for all new access contracts, for amendments to existing access contracts and for new connection contracts. We have powers under the Railways Act 1993 to grant general approvals and those relevant to track access and connection contracts are also listed here. More information on the application process is contained on our other access webpages . Passenger services The relevant application form, model contracts and general approvals for passenger services. Application form Application for approval of, or amendments to a passenger track access contract. Model contracts The Passenger Access (Short Term Timetable and Miscellaneous Changes) General Approval 2009 pdf icon PDF, 62 Kb It permits Network Rail and a train operator to make certain types of amendments to their track access contract without our specific approval, subject to certain conditions. The amendments permitted are described in the general approval. Any other amendments will require our specific approval  under section 22 or directions under section 22A of the Act; It permits Network Rail and passenger train charter operators to enter into track access contracts based on the charter model contract doc icon DOC, 806 Kb and to make certain amendments to such contracts. Freight services The relevant application form, model contracts and general approvals for freight services. Application form Application for approval of, or amendment to, a freight track access contract. Model contract The Freight Access (Track Access Contracts) General Approval 2012 pdf icon PDF, 353 Kb , which: enables Network Rail and a freight operator to enter into a track access contract for up to 5 years and permit firm access rights for a 2 year period: permits Network Rail and the freight operator to amend their track access contract without our specific approval, subject to certain conditions. Any other amendments will require our specific approval under section 22 or directions under section 22A of the Act; enables Network Rail and freight end-customers to enter into a track access contract and permits firm access rights for a limited 2 year period; allows Network Rail and a freight operator (nominated by a freight end-customer) to enter into an end-customer-specific freight track access contract; and enables a freight operator and Network Rail to make certain changes to their existing track access contract relating to liability; necessary where the freight operator has a customer-specific track access contract. It enables port and terminal facility owners and their access beneficiaries to enter into access contracts at those facilities without our specific approval, under certain circumstances. Potential applicants should read the associated covering letter pdf icon PDF, 179 Kb . Appeals 
file_280.txt|Subject to exemptions, the FOI Act gives individuals the right to request any information held by the MHRA. Requestors have the right: to be told whether the information exists to receive the information. Requesting information from the MHRA If you would like to make a request for information under the FOI Act to the MHRA, you may find our FOI request form useful: MHRA Freedom of Information Officer Stephen Wilson stephen.wilson@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Publication Scheme The Act also places a requirement on public authorities to produce a 'Publication Scheme'. These Schemes are a guide to the information routinely published by the public authority, and are designed to make available as much information as possible, without the need for a direct request being made. MHRA Publication Scheme Department of Health Information Asset Register (DH IAR) Following Government consultation on the future management of Crown Copyright and access to public sector information, it was proposed that a Government-wide Information Asset Register should be created which would be accessible by all. The DH IAR lists information resources held by the Department, concentrating on unpublished resources, and in doing so enables users to locate information from one single source. Department of Health Information Asset Register (external link) Guidance on the disclosure of types of human and veterinary medicines information held by the human and veterinary regulatory authorities The MHRA, the Veterinary Medicines Directorate (VMD), the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI) , the Proprietary Association of Great Britain (PAGB),  the National Office of Animal Health (NOAH) and the Food Ethics Council have worked together to produce the following guidance on how the MHRA and the VMD will deal with requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act. Guidance on the disclosure of types of human and veterinary medicines information held by the human and veterinary regulatory authorities This guidance replaces the memorandum of understanding (MOU) between the ABPI, PAGB, MHRA, and NOAH and VMD, in place since late 2004. It is intended to be helpful for regulators, information requestors and industry. It does not purport to be a legally binding document, but guidance and a statement of good practice which cannot be binding on either MHRA or VMD when dealing with an individual request under the FOIA or Environmental Information Regulations. Further information on the FOI Act The FOI Act can be found on the Office of Public Sector Information website: 
file_367.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_223.txt|Manufactured by Fisher and Paykel Healthcare. Specific model and lot numbers are affected. Risk of serious injury to the infant in the warmer The heater head may partially detach due to a manufacturing fault where the nut securing the heater head may break. Fisher and Paykel Healthcare issued a Field Safety Notice (FSN) (185Kb) dated 13 November and provided replacement nuts to customers affected but has not had enough replies to know that users have received and acted on this. Follow the advice in the FSN to identify the infant warmers and any spare parts that may be affected. Replace affected nuts using the nuts supplied with the FSN. Contact Fisher & Paykel Healthcare if you are not sure about affected devices or how to replace the nut. Complete the FSN response form and return it to Fisher and Paykel Healthcare. Action by Staff responsible for the use, maintenance and purchase of these devices. This MDA has been sent to: Care Quality Commission (CQC) (headquarters) for information Clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) HSC trusts in Northern Ireland (chief executives) Local authorities in Scotland (equipment co-ordinators) NHS boards and trusts in Wales (chief executives) NHS boards in Scotland (equipment co-ordinators) NHS England area teams for information NHS trusts in England (chief executives) Special health authorities for information Onward distribution Please bring this notice to the attention of relevant employees in your establishment. Below is a suggested list of recipients. Trusts CAS and SABS (NI) liaison officers for onward distribution to all relevant staff including: Anaesthesia, directors of Intensive care nursing staff (paediatric) Maternity units 
file_904.txt|© Copyright 2015 Office of Rail Regulation All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated 
file_561.txt|An overview of train operating companies effectiveness at managing health and safety risks. Management maturity Overview: our railway management maturity model (RM3) is now embedded in most operators' safety management systems and is being used as part of their own auditing arrangements. We continue to encourage more progress on the use of activity-based safety performance indicators and outcomes. These change behaviours and reduce unsafe acts. We will seek further evidence of established safety activity indicators amongst every mainline operator in 2014-15. Evidence: Train operating companies (TOCs) are making progress in moving to RM3 predictable (level 4) levels of risk management RM3 scores in several criteria but we noted that implementation and monitoring lags behind policy and planning criteria. We found some isolated examples of excellence in discrete topics, such as change management and auditing. Some TOCs have started to introduce proactive indicators and are already seeing positive changes in behaviours where this monitoring has started. Train protection and warning system (TPWS) Overview: The available evidence shows that some operational trends worsened in 2013-14 and we expect the industry to improve its management of these risks, including signals passed at danger (SPAD) risk management. The SPAD reduction strategy being developed by the train operations risk group should help improve SPAD management. We continue to seek evidence of operators' plans to enhance their driving cab's warning system equipment and fit further train protection on the network. A recent double SPAD highlighted the benefits of upgrading in-cab TPWS modules. Evidence: there was an increase in SPAD numbers, including a new seven-year high in those risk-ranked 16 to 19. There were 293 category 'A' SPADs during the period (up 17% on 2012-13) with 92 risk-ranked 16-19 (up 31%) and 16 risk-ranked 20+ SPADs (the same as 2012-13). Evidence from incidents and our investigation of their causes has identified weaknesses in the original TPWS equipment: it does not self-check or provide an indication to the driver of the reasons for an automatic brake application. In 2013, we asked operators to review their train protection equipment and controls in light of the increase in operating incidents, particularly the increase in SPADs and the continued existence of so-called 'reset and continue' incidents, where the driver fails to alert the signaller about an automatic TPWS brake application and drives on. We investigated an incident where shortcomings in the functionality of a basic form of TPWS equipment helped exacerbate the causes of a multiple SPAD. The incident's circumstances are complex but fitting an enhanced form of TPWS would have reduced the risk. We look to all operators to follow the lead of others and plan upgrades to their TPWS equipment using existing overhaul programmes, or when faulty units need to be replaced. Some operators are now unilaterally replacing basic TPWS modules with enhanced versions. Driver management Overview: we remain concerned about the impact of drivers losing concentration and becoming distracted as a cause of operational incidents, especially the increase in SPADs in 2013. We encourage the analysis of remote on-train data recorder downloads to provide more reliable driver performance data. Evidence: we continue to see evidence of interrupted concentration and distraction of drivers. This is an area that the industry must improve by considering what further steps can be taken to help understand what distracts drivers as they approach signals. Operating trend statistics worsened in 2012-13 and although the SPAD numbers stabilised at a higher-level towards the end of 2013-14, their overall rise over 2013 highlights scope for improvement. Low adhesion Overview: Train operators have made significant improvements in low railhead adhesion management. Both through improvements in the volume and consistency of sand applied to the track during brake applications, the reliability of those application rates and through improved general levels of maintenance and housekeeping. Evidence: the buffer stop collision at Chester on 20 November 2013 demonstrated that railhead low adhesion remains a risk to all operators and identified scope to further reduce risk, where reasonably practicable. Station management, train dispatch and the platform train interface Overview: evidence suggests that train dispatch standards are generally satisfactory, but more work needs to be done to improve the station-specific risk assessments used. We encourage operators to proactively monitor the risks to passengers from getting on and off trains and at the platform train interface (PTI) more generally, including in the absence of trains. There is now cross-industry support to proactively use station CCTV to ensure dispatch duties are correctly resourced and carried out. Station crowd congestion poses a difficult challenge across the network, from increasing passenger numbers, service disruption and station construction work. Our 2012-13 report noted the decrease in PTI risks in 2012-13, particularly during train dispatch procedures. We are pleased to note the industry built on this positively with a number of initiatives and programmes aimed at better managing the risk, including setting up the cross-industry PTI strategy group in which we take part. Evidence: overall PTI FWI harm increased 5.6% in 2013-14 and 7.6% over CP4, but these increases should be viewed in light of the growth in passenger numbers. About a quarter of the passenger fatality risk at the PTI involves circumstances where no trains were involved. Crowd congestion is now emerging as a challenge at more stations around the network; not only from increased patronage, but also during service disruption and station construction work. We found some examples of good practice: at one location crowding was well managed by a dedicated control room. Automated congestion monitoring of crowds, once they reach critical levels, is potentially beneficial and can ensure effective control of passenger flows during train dispatch. The industry's people on trains and station risk group are seeking to improve crowd management both on trains and at stations. In order to better manage the risks, there is a need and opportunity to look at ways to carry out unobtrusive monitoring of the PTI. This includes the use of platform CCTV to identify issues, to improve the understanding of passenger behaviour and staff resourcing levels so that control arrangements are appropriate at all times. Following discussions, we are pleased that all sides of the industry now support this initiative. Rolling stock risks Overview: we found evidence of too many vehicles returning to service with failures after overhaul or external maintenance. We expect operators to improve the management of such risk. Evidence: evidence from incidents led us to warn operators to improve their control arrangements of third-party maintenance processes. We saw too many examples of vehicles returning to service after overhaul or external maintenance experiencing failures. This could lead to components falling from them or have caused safety-critical faults. This year we examined operators' return-to-traffic arrangements and operators' audits identified corrective action plans to improve contractors' standards. This remains an area where the industry has more work to do. Last updated - 1 August 2014 
file_943.txt|RSS Feeds RSS Feeds The Office of Rail Regulation website uses a free newsfeed so you can stay up to date with our latest Publications, Press Notices and Consultations. What is RSS? RSS (Really Simple Syndication) is a format for distributing news content and is a simple way to keep up to date with the latest news on a website without having to visit the site. Websites publish via RSS and then individuals or other websites automatically get the updated content via a 'news aggregator' or 'news reader'. Typically, an item in an RSS feed will only contain a title, excerpt or description, and link back to the original, more detailed content. News aggregators or news readers If you want to receive RSS you will need a news reader. Some you can access using a browser, and some are applications that need to be downloaded onto your computer. There is a range of different news readers available and new versions are appearing all the time. Different news readers work on different operating systems, so you will need to take this into account when you make your choice. A list of news readers include: Bloglines , an online RSS reader 
file_398.txt|New to health and safety? COSHH and cleaners - key messages Having your hands wet for a long time or having them frequently wet during the day can irritate your skin leading to dermatitis. Some ingredients in cleaning products can cause skin allergies and asthma. Some cleaning products are corrosive and can cause skin burns and eye damage. There are simple things you can do to prevent ill health. Preventing exposure to harmful substances usually means a combination of some of the following controls: Use good work techniques that avoid or minimise contact with harmful substances and minimise leaks and spills. Store cleaning products safely. For some tasks, you may also need to provide personal protective equipment like protective gloves, aprons and eye  protection. Practice good hand care â€“ remove contamination promptly, wash hands properly, dry thoroughly and use skin creams regularly. Keep the workplace well ventilated. The controls you need will depend on the task. Click the links below for more specific information. 
file_202.txt|iRIS is the MHRA’s new, online account management facility for customers which will allow customers, once they have registered, to view their current and historical account details online. About iRIS iRIS is an online account management facility which will enable customers to view their account details online. iRIS will enable you to: view your customer account transaction details by accessing real time account information, using secure encrypted technology verify your payments have been received and view where your payments have been allocated access and print transaction and balance information when you need it export account information from iRIS to Microsoft Excel allocate your credit memo transactions against your invoices reduce time spent contacting MHRA to check your transactions and balance view your historical transaction history. You will be able to use iRIS to securely track and view payments made by your organisation to the MHRA for: product licence (PL)/parallel import (PI) application fees process licence (wholesale dealer licence – WDL, WL, WDA) application fees clinical trial application fees a combination of all of the above. For further information, see the iRIS FAQs or email us at iris.accounts@mhra.gsi.gov.uk The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Quick-start learning guides The quick-start learning guides below provide some training on how to use iRIS.  Please refer to these before logging on to iRIS.  The quick-start learning guides will open in a new window. To return to the main iRIS pages, close your browser. 
file_843.txt|This document is part of how we hold Network Rail to account. It sets out how we think Network Rail is doing in delivering its obligations to its customers and funders, and highlights any areas of concern. 20 Nov 2014 Efficiency and finance assessment of Network Rail It is intended to help customers, funders and other interested parties gain a better understanding of Network Rail's performance compared with the CP4 financial settlement that we set out in our periodic review 2008 (PR08) determination of Network Rail's access charges. 1 Oct 2014 This report highlights examples of innovative and positive steps that train operators are taking to engage and respond to passengers. 17 Jul 2014 The annual report which we have produced on High Speed 1 (HS1) Ltd’s performance. 4 Jul 2014 GB rail industry financial information 2012-13 presents ORR's analysis of the latest financial data from train operators, Network Rail and governments. 16 Apr 2014 A summary of the passengers’ experience of planning journeys, choosing rail, buying tickets and using its services drawing on new research into passengers’ decisions, past research into buying and travel habits. 2 Apr 2014 We commissioned some research to see how much people knew about the assistance provided when travelling by rail. 28 Mar 2014 Rail passenger compensation and refund rights - report on rail passengers' awareness of their compensation and refund rights. 21 Feb 2014 Our final determination sets out our overall package of decisions for the periodic review 2013 (PR13). 31 Oct 2013 A list of all periodic review 2013 (PR13) publications. 31 Oct 2013 A list of our health and safety reports. 30 Oct 2013 Final conclusions on proposed changes to the Station Access Conditions and Independent Station Access Conditions. 10 May 2013 This report presents our analysis of the latest financial data from train operators, Network Rail and governments. 18 Apr 2013 This study, based on National Travel Survey data from 1995 - 2007, investigates behaviour changes and other factors which may be causing a leveling off in car traffic and sustained growth in rail demand since the mid 1990s. 3 Dec 2012 This report compares for the first time the expenditure of the 19 franchised Train Operating Companies (TOCs), detailing how their costs and revenues have changed over time, how costs vary across franchises, and an examination of the drivers of costs. 23 Nov 2012 Fares and ticketing - information and complexity pdf icon PDF, 1,344 Kb Report on the problems passengers have with the information that is provided to them in relation to fares and tickets, such as the restrictions that apply, and to understand how this impacts on their behaviour and perceptions of the fares and ticketing system. 7 Jun 2012 Conclusions on proposals for reforming Schedule 51 of model track access contracts2 (“TACs”), 11 May 2012 Periodic review 2013: setting the financial and incentive framework for Network Rail in CP5 pdf icon PDF, 1,076 Kb The decisions and approach we are taking on certain issues regarding the 2013 periodic review (PR13), which will set Network Rail’s outputs, access charges and wider regulatory and incentive framework for control period 5 (‘CP5’) – which we expect to run from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019. 1 May 2012 A capability review of the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR), using honest and robust assessments to identify the specific measures that the ORR must address to enable Britain to meet the considerable challenges of the future. 4 Apr 2012 This report presents our analysis of the latest financial data from train operators, Network Rail and governments. 27 Jan 2012 Final conclusions on the Review of Part J (changes to access rights) of the Network Code, and the associated Proposal for Change (PfC) to the Network Code. 23 Dec 2011 A list of all 2008 periodic review (PR08) documents published by us. 11 Aug 2011 Report about passengers’ and others views on increasing the extent of information available about the rail industry’s performance. 8 Jun 2011 The rail Value for Money (VfM) study commissioned a number of consultants' reports to inform its thinking. This page provides links to copies of these reports. 8 Jun 2011 Rail Value for Money study This study puts forward a wide range of recommendations focused on creating an industry environment which encourages cost reduction, changes which deliver new efficiencies, and mechanisms to drive implementation. The Study estimates that implementing these recommendations could deliver savings between £700 million and £1 billion annually by 2019. 19 May 2011 Update report on Network Rail’s cost efficiency compared to its international peers. 8 Sep 2010 Findings and recommendations from the lessons learned review into the process that led up to the issue of directions and approvals for the various East Coast Main Line (ECML) passenger track access applications on 11 February 2010. 20 Aug 2010 Periodic review 2008 - determination of Network Rail’s outputs and funding for 2009-14 pdf icon PDF, 1,803 Kb Determination of the outputs that Network Rail Infrastructure Limited (Network Rail) must deliver, and the levels of access charges paid by train operators for use of its infrastructure, during the five years of control period 4 (CP4), which will run from 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2014. 30 Oct 2008 Conclusions on the proposals to introduce Use It Or Lose It (UIOLI) and buy-back of access rights mechanisms into Track Access Options (TAOs); and responses to comments made in relation to our August 2007 emerging conclusions. 17 Jan 2008 Paper detailing the approach that we plan to take in addressing excessive pricing complaints made under the Competition Act 1998 (CA98) regarding franchised passenger services (in particular fares and car-park charges). 6 Dec 2007 
file_834.txt|Network Rail is responsible for the stewardship of the railway network and this includes: line-side maintenance including vegetation and fencing track quality environmental issues such as noise and vibration, pollution and graffiti railway structures such as bridges, station buildings, overhead lines, tunnels and signalling network maintenance, particularly engineering work and speed restrictions property issues including changes to use of railway land If you have a complaint or enquiry about Network Rail Your should contact Network Rail's national customer helpline (08457 114 141). Alternatively you can contact them through the Network Rail website . Last updated - 31 October 2014 
file_556.txt|Monitoring and reporting Health and safety monitoring and reporting How the railway industry is performing in terms of health and safety, including our latest health and safety report and occupational health performance. Health and safety annual report 2014 Our report on health and safety on Britain's railways in 2013-14. Health and safety annual report 2013 Our report on health and safety on Britain's railways in 2012-13. Occupational health quarterly updates We produce a quarterly update on progress with work under our occupational health programme 2010 to 2014. Assessment of occupational health management in 2010 A baseline review of work related ill health, and its management in the rail industry. 
file_586.txt|Reporting RIDDOR incidents Reporting RIDDOR incidents This page provides an overview of the regulatory requirement to report work-related deaths, certain work-related injuries, specific occupational diseases and specific dangerous occurrences to us. The procedure for reporting will be different depending on the type of accident or incident being reported and the seriousness. Reporting non-serious incidents If an incident is not serious and does not require immediate attention by an inspector it should be reported using: our online reporting form if you are a non-mainline dutyholder; or SMIS if you are a mainline railway duty holder; or LUSEA if you are London Underground. For enquiries about using the online reporting form, please email: riddor.reporting@orr.gsi.gov.uk . This email address should not be used to report any incident. For general queries contact us . Reporting serious railway incidents Only serious RIDDOR incidents , for example: a work related fatality; a serious accident involving a train or tram; a collision between a train and a road vehicle at a level crossing; or incidents where structures collapse onto or block a railway, that require immediate attention should be reported by telephone by a railway dutyholder, the Police or other organisation. Call: 020 7282 3910 Monday to Friday, from 09:00 to 17:30 hrs; or: 020 7944 5445 at all other times. These numbers should not be used for general queries. For general queries contact us . See below and our list of serious incidents  reportable by telephone for more information. Reporting incidents to us under RIDDOR The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 (RIDDOR) require the notification to the relevant enforcing authority of all reportable injuries, fatalities and dangerous occurrences by the quickest practicable means without delay and then a written notification within 10 days. A report of all occupational diseases must be sent to the relevant enforcing authority without delay. The procedure for reporting incidents to ORR will differ according to whether you are reporting: serious injuries and serious dangerous occurrences and fatalities; injuries, and dangerous occurrences that are not serious; or a diagnosis of an occupational disease, occupational cancer, or a diagnosis due to occupational exposure to a biological agent. Reporting serious injuries, serious dangerous occurrences and fatalities To report serious injuries, serious dangerous occurrences and fatalities you must: notify the relevant reporting point set out below by telephone immediately; and then follow up this notification within 10 days with a written notification. Telephone notification The numbers below should only be used to report serious railway incidents as set out in our list of serious incidents reportable by telephone . Only call these numbers if you are a dutyholder, the Police or other organisation seeking to report a serious railway incident under RIDDOR. Monday to Friday, from 09:00 to 17:30 – Telephone: 020 7282 3910 Outside these hours, weekends and public holidays please call the Department for Transport Duty Officer on 020 7944 5445. Please do not use either of these numbers for a general query. For general queries contact us . You must pass on the following details to ORR or the DfT Duty Officer: your name, organisation and telephone number; the date and time the incident occurred; where it occurred; what happened; number of casualties; whether the casualties were passengers, rail employees, or other members of the public e.g. motorist, pedestrian etc.; the initial cause/influencing factors if known; the line/route affected and any delays to services. You should make a note of the name of the person you spoke to and the time you made the notification. Written notification You must follow up any telephone notification within 10 days with a written notification using: the Rail Safety and Standards Board's (RSSB) Safety Management Information System (SMIS) if you are a mainline railway dutyholder; or London Underground's Safety and Environment Analysis database (LUSEA) if you are London Underground. Reporting non-serious injuries and non-serious dangerous occurrences Injuries and dangerous occurrences that are not serious and do not require immediate notification by telephone must be reported to ORR within a reasonable time (typically within three calendar days after the incident) by using: SMIS if you are a mainline railway dutyholder; or LUSEA if you are London Underground. You will only need to make a further written report within 10 days if there is additional information which needs to be provided. Reporting occupational diseases A report of a diagnosis of an occupational disease, occupational cancer, or disease due to occupational exposure to a biological agent must be sent to ORR without delay by following the procedure for reporting occupational diseases . Guidance RIDDOR require deaths, certain injuries, specific diseases and specific dangerous occurrences, which arise out of or in connection with work to be reported to the relevant enforcing authority. All RIDDOR reports arising from work on the operational railway or on a tramway or other guided transport system, including occupational disease or diagnoses reportable under regulations 8 and 9, should be reported to ORR. All other reportable RIDDOR reports should be reported to the Health and Safety Executive (HSE). We have produced guidance on RIDDOR pdf icon PDF, 882 Kb , 488 Kb for the railways, tramways and other guided transport systems. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) has produced general guidance on RIDDOR 2013 which applies to all industries on its website . If a transport system falls outside the scope of ORR's guidance please refer to HSE's general guidance. Last updated - 15 August 2014 
file_499.txt|Open rail Open rail Rail is a complex industry and its finances and operations are difficult to understand. Although 60% of rail finances come from fare-paying passengers, the industry still receives significant sums of public money. It provides a vital public service with significant social benefit. Open rail aims to provide clear information about railway funding and how the industry is performing. Railway funding in Britain Funding for Network Rail and the train and freight operating companies comes from a combination of passenger fares, government subsidy and commercial operations. Read about railway funding in GB Follow us on Twitter Keep up to date with the latest news, conversations and rail data via Twitter by following ORR on @railregulation. Use our hashtag #openrail for any data questions you have. 
file_56.txt|Closing a scheme Providing information to members Advise trustees on what information they need to make available to members, prospective members and other people entitled to benefits under defined benefit pension schemes. You may also be asked to help trustees to produce an annual report and have procedures for resolving disputes with scheme members. On this page Detailed guidance Key points You should work with trustees to ensure information about clients’ defined benefit (DB) schemes is made available to members, prospective members, other beneficiaries and other people entitled to receive information. Trustees must make their annual report available within 7 months of the end of each scheme year. You should work with trustees to ensure there’s a procedure for dealing with complaints and members are told about it. Who's entitled to information The trustees of most pension schemes have to make information available about the scheme, including how it is run and the benefits it provides. You may be asked to help trustees to ensure they make information available to: members – including active members, pensioner members and deferred members prospective members husbands, wives or civil partners of members and prospective members other people entitled to benefits under the scheme independent, recognised trade unions. Back to top When to provide information The people listed above can usually ask for general information about the scheme and the benefits it provides, free of charge, once in any 12-month period. New members must be sent this information when they join the scheme. Trustees also need to provide information to individuals on other occasions either automatically or if they request it, eg when a member retires, dies or leaves the scheme. They may engage you to assist with this. Sometimes scheme events will trigger the need to give information, eg the trustees must send out certain information when a scheme starts to wind up or members are being transferred to another scheme without their consent. Trustees must also make specific items available on request and may need your help. This includes: the scheme's trust deed and rules, although you only need to disclose those parts that are relevant to the individual's membership or the membership the union represents actuarial valuations the scheme's schedule of contributions the scheme's statement of investment principles the trustees’ annual report and accounts. Back to top Annual reports and accounts Trustees must make their annual report and accounts available on request within 7 months of the end of each scheme year. Reports should describe how a scheme has been managed and any changes which have happened in the year. They must include, amongst other things: a copy of the audited accounts and auditor's statement details of the trustees and how they are appointed and removed details of the scheme's professional advisers and fund managers an investment report, including how the investments have performed the number and breakdown of scheme members the number of other people entitled to benefits under the scheme details of pension increases and how they are worked out an address for enquiries Back to top Resolving disputes with members You may be asked to help trustees to put in place a formal arrangement for considering complaints between them and: members someone entitled to benefits following a member’s death individuals who were recently in one of these categories individuals who claim to be in one of these categories. Scheme members must be told about the internal dispute resolution (IDR) procedure. You may be asked to advise the trustees on implementing a procedure that best suits the scheme. However, decisions on disputes should normally be made within four months. You may be asked to advise trustees as part of their regular review of their IDR procedure to ensure it’s working effectively. 
file_129.txt|Research and analysis relating to defined contribution (DC) pension schemes. DC trust DC trust is an annual publication giving a high-level snapshot of the trust-based DC and hybrid landscape. We recommend that you use the most recent version of DC trust as it includes data for the past five years. Reports DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2013 - 2014 Published: January 2014 The Pensions Regulator's annual statistics on occupational defined contribution (DC) trust-based pension schemes and memberships, including DC memberships of hybrid dual-section schemes. DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2012 - 2013 Published: January 2013 This is an annual statistics release which makes available data held by the regulator on occupational trust-based defined contribution DC pension schemes and memberships (including DC memberships of hybrid dual-section schemes). DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2011 - 2012 Published: November 2011 This is an annual statistics release which makes available data held by The Pensions Regulator on occupational trust-based DC pension schemes and memberships (including DC memberships of hybrid dual-section schemes). DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2010 - 2011 (PDF, 728kb, 51 pages) Published: October 2010 The regulator's second analysis of DC trust-based schemes demonstrating the wide range of DC provision in the current market. DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2009 - 2010 (PDF, 749kb, 58 pages) Published: July 2009 The first edition of a yearly publication providing a snapshot of the current trust-based DC and hybrid landscape. Information is based on a wide-ranging dataset covering around 55,000 current and 45,000 wound-up schemes. DC features Research conducted by The Pensions Regulator on the DC trust-based pension scheme features. Reports 
file_205.txt|or press.office@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Out-of-hours 07770 446 189 The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency is delighted to announce the appointment of the new director for The Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) Dr Janet Valentine with effect from today. Dr Valentine joins us from the Medical Research Council where she was Head of Population Health and Informatics. She has worked closely with the UK’s leading medical researchers for over a decade and her extensive knowledge of health research and use of health data for an array of clinical and public health applications will be invaluable in her new role. Prior to this she was deputy chief executive of the UK Clinical Research Collaboration (UKCRC) working with the key stakeholders that shape clinical research in the UK. CPRD, the secure electronic service providing anonymised health data for clinical research was launched three years ago and is jointly funded by the NHS National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). Clinical research enabled by CPRD continues to help accelerate the development of new treatments, and improve health services, drug safety and public health. Its services capitalise on the population wide healthcare coverage provided by the NHS, maximising the way NHS clinical information is used for patient care and population health. Dr Valentine said: “There is a wealth of opportunities for drug development and patient care offered by clinical research based on anonymised NHS and health-related data. I am delighted to join CPRD and look forward to building on the excellent healthcare outputs generated from CPRD data.” Notes to Editor 1. MHRA is a centre of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency which also includes the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). MHRA is an executive agency of the Department of Health. Download documents: 
file_143.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Contact us There are a number of ways you can get in touch - choose from the options below. Our opening hours are 9am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Please note that calls are recorded for training and quality purposes. Automatic enrolment Top five automatic enrolment questions - more automatic enrolment questions As an employer, when will automatic enrolment apply to me? The employer duties are being staged in over six years and the date you’ll need to begin the process of automatic enrolment is known as your staging date. Staging dates are based on the number of people in an employer's largest PAYE scheme. The number of people is based on the latest information available to the regulator from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) as at 1 April 2012. If you’re an employer using only one PAYE scheme, you can use our interactive tool to find out your staging date . For all other cases, you may need to carry out a further check to ensure you have the correct staging date. If you have multiple PAYEs, you need to input all your PAYE references into the tool and the earliest staging date given will be the one that applies. It remains the responsibility of employers to ensure they’ve determined the correct staging date for their organisation. You should therefore ensure you enter the correct PAYE reference and be aware that there may be other circumstances that could affect your staging date, eg if you share a PAYE scheme with a larger organisation. What is our letter code and where can I find it? Your letter code is a 10-digit reference, which you can find on any letters we’ve sent you about automatic enrolment so far. You’ll need this when you come to complete your declaration of compliance (registration) or if you wish to bring your staging date forward. Can an eligible member of staff opt out before being automatically enrolled? No. An eligible member of staff must be automatically enrolled before they can opt out of pension scheme membership as provided for in the legislation. Automatic enrolment is achieved when an employer has given information about the eligible staff to the pension scheme, and the eligible member of staff has received the enrolment information from their employer and has become an active member of the pension scheme. For more information, please see opting out . Do we have to notify the regulator that we will be using postponement from our staging date? No, you don’t have to notify us if you intend to use postponement. However, you’ll be asked what your latest deferral date was when you complete your declaration of compliance with The Pensions Regulator following your staging date. It’s important to note that, if you do apply postponement to a member of staff or a group of staff, you must issue them with postponement notices. Find our more information about postponement . How much will I have to pay? The contribution level is being phased in during implementation, increasing gradually to help employers adjust to costs. Over time, all members of staff must receive minimum pension contributions of 8%, with at least 3% coming from you, the employer. You and/or your staff can pay more than the minimum, see contributions and funding . Is your enquiry about automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration)? See our automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) questions . Further contact details Phone: 
file_710.txt|Independent reporters Independent reporters The role of independent reporters is to provide us with professional advice on the quality of Network Rail's provision, as specified in their licence. As part of the regulatory reform programme, Network Rail's network licence was amended on 11 April 2001 to include a condition providing for independent experts (reporters) to be appointed by the network operator (Network Rail), with our approval. Independent reporters provide data assurance on part A,  review and assess Network Rail's business planning and asset management on part B and monitoring of enhancements projects on part C. For the current Control Period (CP4) that began on 1 April 2009, four reporters have been appointed: Part A: Ove Arup (in partnership with Winder Phillips Associates) review Network Rail's data to provide us with assurance of the accuracy and reliability of their information. Part B: AMCL review and assess Network Rail's Business Planning and Asset Management. Part C: Halcrow (in partnership with KPMG and Cyril Sweett) jointly with Nichols (in partnership with Turner & Townsend and AECOM) support our monitoring of Network Rail's enhancement projects. Final reports are published below, except those for part C which are published in the monitoring and enforcement sections. Final reports by auditor Independent Reporter Part C - Network Rail Performance Recovery Plan 2013/14 Q3 Report pdf icon PDF, 763 Kb This is the Final Report from the Q3 Field Trial investigations undertaken by Nichols as the Independent Reporter  (IR) for mandate CN026. The subject of the Filed Trial was to assess the effects of using Emergency Timetables during Quarter 3 2013/2014. Independent Reporter Part C - Operational Analysis of Train Service Performance - Nichols pdf icon PDF, 3,425 Kb This is the Final Report from the Operational Analysis of Train Service Performance undertaken by Nichols as the Independent  Reporter (IR) for mandate CN030. The investigations were undertaken between 6 May and 23 May 2014 and were constrained to the limited time and data available. 24 June 2014 Independent Reporter Part C – Project and Programme Management Capability Improvement Study pdf icon PDF, 364 Kb This report provides a review of Network Rail's capability in project, programme and portfolio management. It  provides an assessment of Network Rail's existing capability, along with recommendations for further improvement. The report recommends the use of the Cabinet Office's P3M3 measure, which will be an enabler throughout Control Period 5 (2014-2019). 16 Dec 2013 Independent Reporter Part B - Network Rail asset management capability targets for CP5 - AMCL pdf icon PDF, 1,517 Kb This report is a qualitative forecast Network Rail's end of CP4 Asset Management capability, assessed against targets  agreed between the ORR and Network Rail Boards in January 2011. This report also sets out a proposed trajectory to inform the ORR about what rate of progress that could be expected during CP5. slfd Review of performance measures - interim report - ARUP pdf icon PDF, 1,697 Kb This report highlights the findings of the Independent Reporter in review of a series of key punctuality performance indicators and measures produced by  Network Rail for the ORR, to ensure their correctness. The report also investigates concerns about the reliability of an undocumented process for manually recorded data. The report concludes that manually recorded data has an immaterial effect on the performance metrics against which Network Rail are  held to account. The report also concludes that delay attribution has improved since the previous study, and provides accuracy and reliability scores for each of the KPIs. 2 Jul 2013 Independent Reporter Part B - Asset management maturity assessment Strategic Business Plan update - AMCL pdf icon PDF, 4,252 Kb This report documents the findings of an independent assessment of Network Rail's Asset Management capability  at the time of publication of its Strategic Business Plan (SBP) on 7 January 2013. It evaluates Network Rail's progress against the AMCL Asset Management Improvement Roadmap ("AMCL Roadmap") which is being delivered by Network Rail through its Asset Management Improvement Programme (AMIP), and against  the targets agreed between the ORR and Network Rail. 23 May 2013 Independent Reporter Part A - Audit of asset data quality - ARUP pdf icon PDF, 989 Kb Arup as the Part 'A' Independent Reporter was commissioned to undertake an audit of Network Rail's asset data quality. The study was initiated  in order for the ORR to be satisfied that the asset databases used by Network Rail in the development of their Strategic Business Plan (SBP) and for day-to-day operations are robust. The scope of work comprised a review of Network Rail's asset inventory and condition data in order to test currency, completeness  and accuracy of its data. 9 may 2013 Independent review and assurance of Network Rail buildings & civil's transformation programme - summary report pdf icon PDF, 1,612 Kb In June 2010, Arup as Independent Reporter was commissioned by Network Rail and ORR to work  in tripartite collaboration to develop an agreed and benchmarked view of Network Rail's position with respect to Civil Structures' Asset Policy, Stewardship and Management of Structures together with proposed opportunities for improvement (Mandate AO/007). The final report was published in March 2011  and made 77 recommendations for improvement. As a consequence Network Rail initiated a Building & Civils Asset Management (BCAM) Transformation Programme to improve the way that Buildings and Civils Asset Management is undertaken. In June 2011, Arup were appointed (Mandate AO/019) to undertake a  constructive review and assurance of the Network Rail BCAM Transformation Programme. This Final Report dated May 2013 summarises the progress made by Network Rail with their BCAM Transformation Programme up to 31st December 2012 when all 77 recommendations were planned to have been 'closed-out'. 1  May 2013 Independent Reporter Part A - Application of CP4 asset policies – Ove Arup pdf icon PDF, 2,674 Kb The purpose of this report is to review the application of Network Rail's CP4 asset policies in its asset planning and implementation.  Specifically, the review was to assess the degree to which there is a clear auditable trail (line of sight) from the asset policy to workbank to work completed on the ground and general compliance with the requirements of the Asset Policy for each functional asset group (discipline). 25 Apr 2013 Independent Reporter A - Review of safety data 2012-13 - Ove Arup pdf icon PDF, 613 Kb This report discusses the quality of the Health and Safety data that Network Rail sends to ORR to comply with NR's obligations under the RIDDOR  Regulations and the Annual Return. The quality of the data surrounding the standard safety KPI's all matches the quality benchmark set by ORR. For the first time in 2012 Annual return Network Rail provided Occupational Health data on six data sets. 23 Apr 2013 Independent Reporter A - Right Time Performance - Ove Arup pdf icon PDF, 1,525 Kb This independent study was commissioned to test whether right-time punctuality data meets required standards of accuracy and reliability, and if issues  were identified, ensure measures are put in place to address them. Please note the report has been redacted to remove commercially sensitive information. 22 Jan 2013 
file_544.txt|ROGS safety certificates and authorisations issued by us for mainline operators. All certificates and authorisations listed on this page are currently valid. Mainline ROGS safety certificates and authorisations issued Name of SC/SA applicant 
file_237.txt|Adobe text conversion tools An introduction to UK medicines regulation. Although some form of medicine regulation has existed in the United Kingdom since the time of King Henry VIII, it was not until 1971 that a comprehensive regulatory system was introduced. The new Medicines Act brought most previous legislation on medicines together and also introduced a number of other legal provisions for the control of medicines. It was an enabling Act providing for a system of licensing affecting manufacture, sale, supply and importation of medicinal products into the UK.  It became unlawful to engage in these activities except in accordance with appropriate licenses, certificates or exemptions. The UK was not the only country to control medicines in this fashion. Indeed, medicines control was an early area of activity of the European Economic Community (EEC). The first and basic EEC Directive to control medicines was introduced in 1965 (Directive 65/65/EEC). Requirements for the control of medicinal products by the Medicines Act matched those of existing European Directives and in some instances went beyond them (for example for clinical trials). During the ensuing years the UK contributed, together with other Member States, to the development and updating of the EEC Directives in this area. European Community (EC) legislation now takes precedence over the Medicines Act, its Instruments and Orders, which are amended from time to time to align with new EC requirements. The current relevant legislation is given in Directive 2001/83/EC relating to medicinal products for human use, amended by Directives 2002/98/EC, 2003/63/EC, 2004/24/EC and  2004/27/EC. Safety, quality and efficacy are the only criteria on which legislation to control human medicines is founded.  It is the responsibility of the MHRA and the expert advisory bodies set up by the Medicines Act to ensure that the sometimes difficult balance between safety and effectiveness is achieved.  MHRA experts assess all applications for new medicines to ensure they meet the required standards.  This is followed up by a system of inspection and testing which continues throughout the lifetime of the medicine.  Safety monitoring is also continuous and the MHRA also ensures that doctors and patients receive up-to-date and accurate information about their medicines.  This is achieved by ensuring that product labels, leaflets, prescribing information and advertising meets the required standards laid down by the Regulations. Further information on how we regulate medicines in our publication: 
file_361.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_480.txt|Safety bodies Safety bodies A summary of the different safety bodies we work with as part of our role as the safety and economic regulator of Britain's railways. British Transport Police (BTP) The national police force for the mainline railways and the London Underground system, Docklands Light Railway, the Glasgow Subway, the Midland Metro tram system and Croydon Tramlink. Health & Safety Executive (HSE) The the Health and Safety Executive HSE gives advice to the Government on health and safety matters. Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) Investigates railway accidents and incidents on the UK's railways to improve safety, not to establish blame. Read more about the Rail Accident Investigation Branch Railway Industry Health and Safety Advisory Committee (RIHSAC) Provides advice to us on railway health and safety, exchanges information, comments on proposed new regulations and guidance and works to progress health and safety issues and other related developments within the industry. 
file_6.txt|
file_62.txt|Key points Ensure your clients identify what types of member data their defined contribution (DC) scheme needs to keep. Help your clients to set up adequate internal controls that enable them to maintain accurate and up-to-date member data. Ensure your clients carry out a data review exercise regularly and create a data improvement plan. Make sure your clients work with employers to ensure that they understand when they need to provide information. Types of member data Trustees are legally required to keep certain types of information. If you are responsible for managing your clients’ scheme data, you need to keep records relating to: the date each member joined the scheme details of all the contributions received all payments to and from the scheme details of transfers of members’ benefits to and from the scheme. You also need to hold certain types of data that is common to all schemes as well as other types of data that is conditional on a number of factors. For more information about common data and conditional data, see the data to be measured in our record-keeping regulatory guidance. You need to keep records for a minimum of six years. However, you will need to keep some records, including both common and conditional data, for a much longer period. Back to top Internal controls Your clients must have adequate internal controls that enable them to maintain accurate and up-to-date member data. They should ensure that the processes meet the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998. Back to top Maintaining data You should ensure trustees carry out a data review exercise at appropriate intervals, eg annually. You should also advise them to carry out a review when significant events occur, such as merging or winding up the scheme. They should have a data improvement plan to address poor quality data. Back to top Working with employers Make sure trustees take reasonable steps to ensure that member records are reconciled with information held by employers. Ensure that employers understand when they need to provide trustees with information. This includes key events such as when an employee: joins or leaves the scheme changes their rate of contribution changes their name, address or salary retires from work or dies. If an employer fails to provide the required information, the trustees and you should consider whether you need to report the breach to us. See code of practice 1: reporting breaches of the law . 
file_179.txt|Glossary of MHRA terms - A Help viewing PDFs: Click on a different letter in the list above for terms beginning with that letter. A ABHI Association of British Healthcare Industries. This is the trade association representing medical device technology manufacturers and distributors in the UK. ABPI Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry. This is the trade association representing the manufacturers of prescription only medicines in the UK. Abridged application An application for a marketing authorisation in which the applicant is not required to provide full results of tests and trials because the product is essentially similar to one already licensed in the UK (or the constituents of the product have a well established medicinal use). ADR Adverse Drug Reaction. A harmful and unintended reaction that occurs at a dose normally used for the prophylaxis, diagnosis or treatment of disease or the modification of physiological function. ADROIT Obsolete term. Replaced by the Sentinel PV Case Folder. AEGIS Obsolete term. Replaced by secure internet portal. AI Adverse incident. This is an event that produces, or has the potential to produce, unwanted effects involving the safety of patients, users or other persons. AIMDD Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive. AITS Adverse Incident Tracking System. This is the the MHRA internal database for processing and monitoring medical adverse incident reports from health professionals and members of the public. API 
file_113.txt|Terms and conditions Register and log in to The Pensions Regulator Welcome to The Pensions Regulator's online service, where you can share      scheme information with us, notify us and make levy payments for example: Registering new pension schemes Setting up a direct debit to pay your levy Submitting a recovery plan. Submitting late payment of contributions reports. If you've previously registered with us, then simply log in using the email      address and password you used to register. If you haven’t yet registered, then select ‘register now’. You can't register for automatic enrolment using Exchange - go to declaration of compliance . What's available? Share important scheme information with us – scheme registration, scheme return       and more Maintaining contributions Report late payments of contributions from employers to your defined contribution pension scheme(s) Already registered? 
file_861.txt|This guide provides a summary of the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS). 23 Oct 2014 This publication provides guidance on the application of the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 (RIDDOR 2013) to: railways; tramways; and any other system using guided transport. 22 Sep 2014 This guide provides a summary of the Train Driving Licences and Certificates Regulations 2010 (TDLCR) and its aim is to help people affected by them to understand their responsibilities and to take the appropriate action. 15 Jul 2014 Assessment criteria for non-mainline safety certificate and safety authorisation applications - March 2014 pdf icon PDF, 760 Kb This new set of criteria aims to reduce duplication by having criteria that are applicable to both infrastructure managers and transport undertakings together in one place. Any criteria that apply to infrastructure managers only or to transport undertakings only are clearly stated. The only regulatory change that has been reflected in the new criteria is in relation to the 28-day ‘affected party’ consultation period, which now runs concurrently with ORR’s four-month processing time. 31 Mar 2014 This manual outlines the process for surveillance assessments associated with the certification of entities in charge of maintenance (ECM). 6 Jan 2014 Supplementary guidance to HSE's Enforcement Management Model for ORR pdf icon PDF, 965 Kb This guidance will help maintain a level of consistency with the HSE as the principal enforcing authority for the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974. There are some enforcement decision making issues that are railway specific, and this guidance sets out additional instructions for using HSE's Enforcement Management Model (EMM) in the railway context. 31 Dec 2013 ORR policy on complaints relating to health, safety and welfare arising from the operation of Britain's railways and our process and guidance on handling health safety and welfare complaints. 12 Dec 2013 Witness information leaflet - how we investigate incidents pdf icon PDF, 149 Kb Leaflet for those asked to be a witness for the Office of Rail Regulation, intended to answer any questions you might have and provide guidance on why we conduct investigations, how we gather information and evidence, and how you might be asked to help. 11 Sep 2013 Guidance for ORR staff on the use, drafting and service of improvement and prohibition notices and schedules. 13 Jun 2013 This document provides Infrastructure Managers and Railway Undertakings with guidance on producing their annual safety report, as required by the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS). 3 Apr 2013 This guidance summarises the European Commission Regulation that sets out a common safety method (CSM) on risk evaluation and assessment for the mainline railway industry. 4 Dec 2012 This document sets out briefly, what an applicant for an ECM certificate has to provide ORR and outlines the assessment process which ORR will undertake. 2 Jul 2012 This manual provides inspectors with advice and guidance on how to assess applications for an entity in charge of maintenance (ECM) certificate for freight wagons as per European Commission Regulation 445/2011 (the ECM Regulation). 2 Jul 2012 Guidance to ORR staff on how significant incidents should be handled. 28 Jun 2012 A list of documents containing information relating to human factors in the rail industry. 20 Jan 2012 Advice on good practice in managing fatigue associated with work in the rail industry. 20 Jan 2012 Level crossings: A guide for managers, designers and operators pdf icon PDF, 1,275 Kb General guidance on the safe management, operation, modification and use of Britain’s level crossings, anddetageneral guidance on the safe management, operation, modification and use of Britain’s level crossings, also detailed information on the level crossing order making process which we manage 15 Dec 2011 ORR is responsible for ensuring that successful bidders for new franchises have been granted a safety certificate/authorisation before the franchise start date, and this guidance covers the process. 23 May 2011 Assessment criteria for mainline safety certificate and safety authorisation applications pdf icon PDF, 1,465 Kb Revised guidance including the new EU criteria along with an indication of the evidence which ORR expects to be provided when applications for certificates or authorisations are submitted. This guidance replaces our previous guidance ‘Assessment Criteria for Safety Certificate and Authorisation Applications dated June 2008’. 13 Apr 2011 This document sets out the criteria we use to assess an organisation’s ability to achieve excellence when controlling health and safety risks. 25 Mar 2011 Simple rules for operating user worked level crossings on farmland, which will help to prevent deaths and injuries. 24 Mar 2011 This guidance is for businesses whose employees may need to cross the railway. 24 Mar 2011 Technical guidance notes for tramways - providing additional guidance for promoters, developers and designers of tramways. 25 Jun 2010 This guidance aims to help account holders understand what we expect from them and how they can use techniques for the evaluation of management systems (TEMS) to assess management systems in a systematic way. 16 Jun 2010 This user guide provides RIDDOR reporters with step-by-step instructions for completing the new online RIDDOR form. 6 Apr 2010 This guide describes how ORR will process applications for safety-related approvals that have been delegated to ORR by the Secretary of State for Transport. 27 Mar 2009 The process we will follow when a serious dispute regarding ROGS duty of cooperation requirements is escalated to us, including disputes arising from the new compatibility standard GE/RT 8270. 8 Dec 2008 This guide is for operators of heritage railways. It provides advice on the safety verification requirements of the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS). 1 Oct 2008 This guide is primarily for operators and promoters of tramways. It provides advice on the safety verification requirements in the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS). 1 Oct 2008 The aim of this paper is to highlight the key components of effective worker involvement. 23 Sep 2008 Guidance and advice to those involved in the management, examination, repair, maintenance and operation of railway locomotive boilers. 29 Oct 2007 Guidelines for completing the Application Form for Mainline Safety Certificates Part A and Part B. 4 Oct 2007 Advice and assistance to minor rail operators on safety requirements. 10 Sep 2007 This guidance is aimed at those responsible for managing and controlling people who carry out safety critical tasks in the railway and associated industries. 7 Aug 2007 Guidance on the terms “controller of safety critical work”, “maintenance and installation of components” (in relation to a vehicle used on a transport system) and “practical training”. 12 Jun 2007 Background to the Railway Safety Regulations 1999, which required the installation of a form of train protection on the railway, and the staged withdrawal of Mark I rolling stock and of rolling stock with hinged doors but without central locking. 30 May 2007 This document sets out essential principles and guidance regarding the operational aspects of rail safety. 21 May 2007 This guidance explains how Duty Holders (Railway Undertakings (RUs) or Infrastructure Managers (IMs)) arrive at the decision to apply, or not apply, Safety Verification (SV). 17 May 2007 Developing and maintaining staff competence pdf icon PDF, 389 Kb Guidance primarily aimed at those who are responsible for managing and assuring the competence of individuals and teams in the railway and other guided transport systems industry, and whose work may have an impact on operational safety and on occupational health and safety. 1 Mar 2007 Advice and assistance to tramways and light rail operators on safety requirements. 24 Nov 2006 
file_32.txt|Pay regular contributions into the pension. Monitor the age and earnings of all staff, and any new staff joining. Process any opt-in, joining or opt-out requests. Keep and maintain accurate records. Re-enrol every three years. All of this should become 'business as usual', just like real-time PAYE. Contributions You must calculate and pay your own contributions to your pension scheme on behalf of your staff, as well as calculating, deducting and paying over your staff’s own contributions. You will have agreed contribution rates and when to pay them with your pension scheme when you were setting it up. The amount you must pay must be at or above the minimum amount set in law. For more information about the minimum rates and paying contributions to your scheme go to contributions and funding . Back to top Changes in staff's age and earnings You’ll need to monitor any changes in age and earnings of your staff so you can identify if they become eligible for automatic enrolment. You must also check eligibility of any new member of staff. Your business software, eg your payroll, should be able to support you with this monitoring. For more information on how to assess your staff’s age and earnings go to know your workforce . Back to top Opt outs ‘Opting out’ is when a staff member decides to leave your pension scheme within a month of being enrolled and get a full refund of any contributions they’ve made. For more information on the opt-out period and what to do, including issuing refunds, go to opting out . Back to top Opt-ins and joiners Some staff who aren’t eligible for automatic enrolment have a right to ‘opt in’ to your automatic enrolment scheme. Staff who opt in are entitled to an employer contribution from you. Other staff, who earn under a certain amount, are entitled to ‘join’ a pension scheme. Though there’s no entitlement in law for you to pay an employer contribution for these staff, you can choose to if you wish. To find out who can opt in and who can join a scheme, and what you must do if they ask to do so, go to opting in and joining . Back to top Keeping records You must keep up-to-date records about your staff, including who you’ve automatically enrolled and when, information about your pension scheme, and the contributions you are paying. To find out what information you need to keep about your staff and your pension scheme go to record-keeping . Back to top Re-enrolment Every three years, you’ll need to re-enrol those staff who have opted out back into your automatic enrolment pension scheme, provided they’re still eligible. You’ll also need to complete a re-declaration of compliance with us. The process for both is basically the same as at staging or after postponement. 
file_13.txt|Your staging date is when your automatic enrolment duties first come into force. Your staging date is based on the total number of people in your PAYE scheme. You can find out your staging date using your PAYE reference. You can bring your staging date forward but you can’t make it later (unless you are a particular type of small employer - see exceptions ). What is a 'staging date'? Every employer will have a date from when the automatic enrolment duties come into force for their business. This is called an employer’s ‘staging date’. Automatic enrolment is being staged in over a period of six years, which started with the largest employers in 2012. Staging dates are based on the size of an employer’s PAYE scheme on 1 April 2012 – the more people in the PAYE scheme at that time, the earlier the staging date. If you use more than one PAYE scheme, your staging date is based on the total number of people in the largest one that you use. Staging dates were determined based on the latest PAYE scheme information from HMRC held by us at 1 April 2012. If you made any changes to your PAYE scheme before this date, they may not be reflected in the data from HMRC. Back to top How do I find out my staging date? You can find out your staging date by entering your PAYE reference into our staging date tool. If you use more than one PAYE scheme, you’ll need to enter the reference for each one you use. Your staging date will be the one that’s earliest. It’s important that you have the right PAYE reference and enter it correctly so you get the right staging date. You can find your PAYE reference on a P6 / P9 coding notice. It can also be found on your white payslip booklet, P30BC. If you’ve had any letters from us about your automatic enrolment duties, your staging date is also printed on these letters. There are some circumstances where the tool won’t be able to give you the right staging date, for example if you set up in business after 1 April 2012. Read more about the exceptions to using the tool . Back to top Can I change my staging date? Yes – you can bring forward your staging date, but you must notify us. For more information go to bringing your staging date forward . Certain, small employers can choose to move their staging date back to a later date than the one determined at 1 April 2012 if, on that date, they: employed fewer than 50 staff, and had, or were part of, a PAYE scheme that has more than 50 people in it. If this applies to you go to modified staging dates for some small employers . If this doesn’t apply to you, you cannot make your staging date later. 
file_591.txt|Responses to RAIB reports 2014 Responses to RAIB reports 2014 Our responses to the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) in relation to their recommendations published in 2014. Incident date 
file_220.txt|Monthly lists of letters for healthcare professionals on the safety of medicines 17 November 2014 Copies of letters sent to healthcare professionals in October 2014, to inform of new safety information and advice. Date sent SonoVue (sulphur hexafluoride) (1582Kb) If a patient has cardiovascular instability (eg recent acute coronary syndrome or clinically unstable ischaemia), administer SonoVue with extreme caution and only after carefully considering the balance of benefit against risks. Closely monitor vital signs during and after administration: in these patients, allergy-like or vasodilatory reactions may lead to life-threatening conditions. Do not use SonoVue in combination with dobutamine in patients with conditions suggesting cardiovascular instability. Rare but severe arrhythmias, sometimes fatal, have been reported in patients with cardiovascular instability during stress echocardiography procedure with SonoVue used in combination with dobutamine. 7 October 2014 The following Piportil Depot® formulations will no longer be available from the end of March 2015: Piportil Depot® (Pipotiazine palmitate) 10 x 1ml (50mg/ml) amp Piportil Depot® (Pipotiazine palmitate) 10 x 2ml (50mg/ml) amp Do not start new patients on pipotiazine palmitate. Switch patients currently prescribed pipotiazine palmitate to alternative treatments. 17 October 2014 OncoTICE (attenuated bacilli of Mycobacterium bovis, prepared from a culture of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin [BCG] (290Kb)) There is a supply shortage of OncoTICE in the UK. As an interim measure, a batch which was packaged for a different country has been made available to the UK. This batch does not contain a Patient Information Leaflet (PIL) in the pack. Copies of the PIL are being distributed along with the ordered batches. Please ensure that patients have access to these PILs. Page last modified: 		 		17 November 2014 
file_357.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_448.txt|Executive directors Executive directors Staff at ORR are divided into eight directorates and led by a team of executive directors. ORR's leadership team of executive directors is responsible for delivering the board's objectives and business plan, in line with our statutory duties; and for making our people motivated and equipped to deliver first rate safety and economic regulation, which drive better outcomes for consumers and the public. Richard Price - Chief executive Richard Price was appointed chief executive designate from 16 May 2011 and took up responsibility as chief executive on 17 June 2011. The Secretary of State for Transport appointed him to the ORR Board from 16 May 2011 until 15 May 2016. The chief executive is responsible for: the delivery by the Office of the strategy set by the ORR Board; carrying out effectively the duties assigned to ORR under statute; ensuring the Office operates efficiently, with integrity and probity; working closely with the ORR chairman, to engage with external stakeholders at all level. Dan Brown - Director, strategy and policy Dan is responsible for working with the Chief Executive and Directors to develop and implement ORR's policy and strategy for regulation of the rail sector. Richard Emmott - Director, communications Richard is responsible for the strategic management of ORR's reputation and the delivery of an engagement strategy which complements the organisation’s business plan and supports its regulatory approach. John Larkinson - Director, economic regulation John is responsible for monitoring Network Rail against the challenges of the next five years set out in ORR’s 2013 periodic review, including financial monitoring, and overseeing the delivery of ORR’s role as the consumer authority for the rail industry Juliet Lazarus - Director, legal services Juliet leads the team providing legal advice to ORR. The team advises on all aspects of ORR's work and manages the relationship with external lawyers. Alan Price - Director, rail performance Alan is the director of railway planning and performance with responsibility for holding Network Rail to account for its performance and its stewardship of the national railway network infrastructure, with the objective of driving a step change in whole industry performance and efficiency for the benefit of taxpayers, passengers and freight customers who rely on Britain’s railways. Alan is an executive member of the board . Ian Prosser - Director, railway safety Ian Prosser is the chief inspector of railways and director, railway safety. He is responsible for the work of the Railway Safety Directorate, which strives to ensure duty-holders in the railway industry manage health and safety risks effectively and thus comply with their statutory duties. The Secretary of State appointed him to the Board with effect from 26 September 2008. Ian is an executive member of the board . Tom Taylor - Director, corporate operations and organisational development Tom is responsible for the provision of all support services to the business – finance, human resources, information management, information systems, facilities and business planning. Joanna Whittington - Director, railway markets and economics Joanna is responsible for ORR's longer term economic regulatory role as well as more immediate work on planning for the next funding period and the review of access charges including incentives to maximise the efficient use of capacity on the rail network. Joanna is an executive member of the board . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_195.txt|The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Fees This page includes the fees payable for the regulation of medicines, guidance for periodic fees, and how to make payments to the MHRA. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Clinical trials This page provides links to information on applying for a clinical trial authorisation (CTA), maintaining a CTA, safety reporting and  Good Clinical Practice (GCP). The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Post marketing authorisation approval This page provides links to information about post marketing authorisation approval procedures, including  variations, renewals, and changes of ownership. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Herbal, homeopathic and borderline medicines This page provides links to information on how to place a herbal medicine on the UK market, homeopathic medicines and borderline medicines. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Manufacturing and wholesaling This page provides links to information about manufacturer's and wholesale dealer's licences, including the registers of licensed sites and lists of  new, terminated and revoked licences, importing and exporting, and the associated legislation and guidance. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Contacting the MHRA This page provides links to information about how to contact the MHRA. It also includes an escalation procedure for industry to resolve any issues informally. Go to the contacting the MHRA page Legislation, guidance and policy This page provides links to information on medicines legislation, guidance and policy. It includes an overview of medicines legislation, including preparing a medicinal product for sale in the UK or EU marketplace, how the MHRA develops policy, and current MHRA consultations relevant to industry. Go to the legislation, guidance and policy page Applying for a marketing authorisation This page provides links to all the information needed for obtaining a marketing authorisation (including parallel import licences) in the UK. Product information and advertising This page provides links to information on product information (labels, patient information leaflets and packaging) and advertising. Go to the product information and advertising page Inspection This page provides links to information about the different types of inspection, including the inspection process and risk-based inspections, as well as the associated legislation and guidance. Go to the inspection page Safety and pharmacovigilance This page provides links to information about safety and pharmacovigilance, including adverse drug reaction reporting, periodic safety update reports, 'Drug Safety Update', as well as the associated legislation and guidance. Go to the safety and pharmacovigilance page Over-the-counter medicines This page provides links to the latest information about over-the-counter (OTC) medicines including products containing codeine, pseudoephedrine and children's cough and cold medicines and reclassification of medicines, as well as questions and answers on the new OTC Product Licensing Assessment Team (PLAT) 7. Go to the over-the-counter medicines page Medicines for children This page provides links to information about the regulation of medicines for children, including the requirements for submission of paediatric data and the European paediatric work-sharing procedures. 
file_325.txt|
file_824.txt|For details of which fare types are regulated, please see the Strategic Rail Authority's Fares Review Conclusions 2003 pdf icon PDF, 808 Kb . As such, the amount by which an individual regulated fare can rise is capped at the Retail Prices Index (RPI) plus a maximum of 6%, within a basket of fares that cannot rise by more than RPI plus 1%. RPI was 3.2% (in July 2012) when the limits were set for this year, so the maximum average increase for the basket is 4.2%, and the maximum increase for an individual fare is 9.2%. There are three exceptions to this: Merseyrail's concession agreement with the local Passenger Transport Executive (PTE) limits regulated fares to an average increase of RPI (no plus addition). Northern Rail's agreement with West Yorkshire PTE limits the amount by which an individual regulated fare can rise at the RPI plus a maximum of 8%, within a basket of fares that cannot rise by more than RPI plus 3%. So the maximum average increase for the basket is 6.2% and the maximum increase for an individual fare is 11.2%. Southern's franchise agreement limits the amount by which an individual regulated fare can rise at the RPI plus a maximum of 3%, within a basket of fares that cannot rise by more than RPI plus 1%. So the maximum average increase for the basket is 4.2% and the maximum increase for an individual fare is 6.2%. We enforce the Competition Act 1998, which makes it illegal for companies to do certain things, for example, use their powerful position in the market to take advantage of consumers or fix prices and we may conduct an investigation if we have reasonable grounds to suspect the law has been broken. If you think we should look at your fare, please look at our approach to the application of competition law to rail fares and car park charges . It is set out in our web-based guide and our set of quick reference questions and answers on this topic. If, after reading our guide you still think that we should look at your fare, go to our guidance on how to make a complaint under competition law pdf icon PDF, 47 Kb . Penalty fares We have no role in relation to penalty fares. Rules concerning penalty fares are set out in the National Rail Conditions of Carriage (NRCoC) . Train companies will have their own penalty fares scheme. These schemes are approved by the Department for Transport . If you have been charged a penalty fare and wish to appeal against it, you should contact the relevant train operating company and use its appeal system. You may also consider seeking advice from Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch , as appropriate, who may be able to assist you further. You should note that they cannot take up your complaint until you have contacted the relevant train company and given it a chance to respond first, and you should enclose all previous correspondence with the train company/retailer. 
file_755.txt|Track access options Track access options This section contains information and guidance relating to track access options where these are associated to passenger or freight track access applications. Other informative documents are listed to help you in considering whether an option application is appropriate in particular circumstances. Applicants should use either the passenger or freight model contract and application form as appropriate. We have published drafting for track access option model clauses pdf icon PDF, 67 Kb . We recommend that any party intending to make an application for a track access option contact us at an early stage to discuss its plans and aspirations If you have any questions, please contact us . Further information 
file_842.txt|Health and safety Health and safety policies and statements A list of our health and safety policies and statements is available in date order below. Any work involving hand-held machinery and power tools should be managed to meet the appropriate legal controls and standards to prevent the risks from hand arm vibration (HAV), focussing on alternative and safer methods of work. 8 Oct 2014 Our work related stress position paper aims to promote and support the wider adoption of an organisational, rather than individual approach, to work related stress management across the rail industry. 20 Jun 2014 ORR policy on complaints relating to health, safety and welfare arising from the operation of Britain's railways and our process and guidance on handling health safety and welfare complaints. 12 Dec 2013 Our long-term regulatory statement discusses how our regulation may develop in line with the changing shape of the industry, and identifies priorities for the growth and sustainability of Britain’s railways. 15 Jul 2013 HSWA enforcement policy statement pdf icon PDF, 228 Kb How we will use our powers under the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 (HSWA), to enforce compliance with both health and safety law and the following specific legislation for which we are the enforcing authority: the Railways (Interoperability) Regulations 2011; the Rail Vehicle Accessibility (Non-Interoperable Rail System) Regulations 2010; and the Train Driving Licences and Certificates Regulations 2010. 1 Apr 2013 This statement explains our approach to assuring that railway duty-holders take effective action to protect members of the public who are not passengers. 20 Dec 2011 ORR’s health and safety policy position on on-train crowding. 3 Sep 2010 A statement of ORR’s policy on how we will deal with reports and associated recommendations made by the Railway Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB). 24 Jun 2010 As the health and safety authority for Britain’s railways, we must make arrangements for protecting the health, safety and welfare of workers, and for protecting others against health or safety risks relating to the activities of people at work. 15 Apr 2010 What we believe, what we expect from rail companies and what we will do. 14 Jan 2010 This statement provides a summary of our role in the safety arrangements provided by the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety) Regulations 2006 (ROGS). 18 Jul 2007 
file_528.txt|Complaints Complaints If you have a complaint relating to your experience when buying a ticket or travelling by rail, you should contact the relevant train company first, to give it the opportunity to respond. Separate information on complaints about the price of your train ticket or station car park is available. How to contact the relevant train company You can find a list of train companies on the National Rail Enquiry website , or you can phone National Rail Enquiries on: 08457 48 49 50 or National Rail Enquiries Textphone: 0845 60 50 600 (for customers with hearing impairments). Before contacting the train company, you might like to look at the websites of Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch , as their frequently asked questions and advice pages contain useful information that may help you when making a complaint. What happens if you are not happy with the response you get? If you are not satisfied with the response you receive from the train operating company or retailer, you can contact Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch, as appropriate, who may be able to assist you further. You should note that they cannot take up your complaint until you have contacted the relevant train company and given it a chance to respond first, and you should enclose all previous correspondence with the train company/retailer. What are my rights as a rail passenger? The National Rail Conditions of Carriage (NRCoC) set out your rights when travelling by rail on the National Rail Network. If you are travelling to Europe by rail, please check with the company if other terms apply to the international part of your journey. Individual train companies may give you more extensive rights than those set out in the NRCoC. These may be found in the relevant train company's Passenger's Charter or other publications. The relevant train company will be able to advise you of these, or you can often find them on its website. You should also be aware of the terms and conditions of the ticket type you are using – Anytime, Off-Peak or Advance – as these vary. Details of these ticket types and their terms and conditions can be found on the National Rail website. Health and safety complaints Complaints regarding health and safety on the railways can be sent to our customer correspondence team , which will forward your complaint to the relevant railway safety team member. If you are a railway company employee and have a health and safety complaint that has not been successful with your manager, with the unions or with CIRAS , you may contact us and we will forward your complaint to the appropriate railway safety team member. Your confidentiality will be protected if you so request Complaints about Network Rail You should try to resolve your complaint with Network Rail in the first instance. However we provide information on what Network Rail are responsible for and how you can make an complaint or enquiry . Please note that Network Rail's licence is deliberately designed so that our regulatory controls are at a high level, rather than at ground level. Because of this we are unlikely to be able to intervene in many individual complaints from members of the public. If, however, there is an issue that you feel we should be made aware of, you are welcome to submit your concerns to our customer correspondence team . Competition complaints We enforce the Competition Act 1998 in the railway sector. The Competition Act outlaws any agreements, business practices or conduct which has, or could have, a damaging effect on competition in the United Kingdom. This includes abuse by a company which uses its dominant position in a way that damages competition. Where conduct has an effect on trade between member states we will apply Articles 101 and 102 of the European Treaty. Read more information about the Competition Act . Complaints about us Our Customer correspondence team (CCT) Our customer correspondence team handle all complaints that come to us. 
file_932.txt|The rail regulator’s blog The rail regulator’s blog Welcome to the rail regulator's blog, where people from across the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) will give their thoughts and a bit of an insight into the work that they are doing across the railway industry as a joint economic and safety regulator. Keeping our railways running safely this winter Published: 11 Dec 2014 ORR chief executive Richard Price explains what the regulator is doing over the winter period to ensure minimal disruptions to passengers. 
file_836.txt|Customer correspondence team Customer correspondence team Our Customer correspondence team (CCT) deals with complaints, enquiries and Freedom of Information (FOI) requests from members of the public. We ensure that anyone who contacts us receives a prompt and full response to their comment or query. We aim to: provide you with a full response within twenty working days refer your correspondence to the most appropriate organisation or regulatory body if necessary Before contacting CCT, you may wish to read our Information for passengers section. Contact details 
file_567.txt|Roles of key industry bodies Roles of key industry bodies A summary of the roles of key railway industry bodies. Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) Railway industry dutyholders enforces compliance with Health and Safety at Work Act and subordinate regulations for Britain's railways by: setting railway-specific policy; inspection, audit and investigation or risk controls; driving improvement through advice and formal enforcement; ensuring research is carried out. assures system safety for mainline railway; and acts as Britain's National Safety Authority in Europe. duty to eliminate risk by: conducting risk assessments; implementing control measures within a Safety Management System (SMS) through setting safe systems of work, instruction, training, supervision, monitoring and review of the effectiveness of their controls; and co-operating with other operators and parties. licence condition requires railway group members (but only on the mainline) to join RSSB. Others, such as suppliers, can join voluntarily. Rail Safety and Standards Board (RSSB) Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) scope is the mainline railway; manages railway group standards for interfaces (operational/performance benefits as well as safety); supports the industry in securing health and safety by: data-gathering, analysis and risk modelling; running the cross-industry research, development and innovation programme; and encouraging and facilitating cooperation; and providing technical expertise. independent investigation body for railway accidents/incidents; has no enforcement powers; produces reports with recommendations about preventing a reoccurrence; can produce urgent safety advice; and does not apportion blame or liability. Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) Building on previous years, our good working relationship with the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) continued to develop at all levels during 2013-14. RAIB's investigation managers regularly presented preliminary findings of their investigations to our inspectors as part of the RAIB's consultation process. We also participated in tripartite meetings with the RAIB and Network Rail as a vehicle for exchanging information on current issues. Regular productive high-level meetings with RAIB's senior executives took place. RAIB attended ORR's Safety Regulatory Committee in March 2014, where RAIB's Chief Inspector confirmed the view that relationships and work between the organisations continued to be positive. Our role is to influence and monitor end-implementer actions to consider and implement RAIB's recommendations and report action being taken to address each recommendation to RAIB within 12-months of a recommendation being published. During 2013-14, we reported to RAIB on 199 recommendations . Of these: 87 were reported as 'Implemented' (all actions complete and recommendation fully addressed); 11 were reported as 'Implemented by alternative means'; 33 as 'Implementation on-going (appropriate action plan with completion dates received from the end implementer); 62 as 'In progress' (discussions on-going with the end-implementer to agree actions to address the recommendations); and 6 as 'non-implementation' (valid reasons have been accepted as to why the recommendations should not be subject to implementation). We update RAIB on recommendations classed as 'implementation on-going' and 'in progress' when further information is available. In the same period, RAIB published 24 reports with a total of 94 recommendations for Great Britain. At the end of 2013-14 we had: 80 recommendations less than 12-months old; and 91 recommendations where we had previously reported to RAIB that actions were in-hand or incomplete information had been provided by end-implementers. We will continue to work with end-implementers to address this. We expect to update RAIB on these recommendations within timescales advised. During the year we reduced the number of recommendations reported as 'In-progress' that are over two years old from 43 to 16. We will continue to work with the industry to address these remaining recommendations. An independent audit of our recommendation-handling process and of our relationship with RAIB was carried out during the year. This resulted in a number of proposals designed to further strengthen the working relationship. Work has already begun to address these and will continue in the coming year. During the reporting period, the RAIB and ORR worked on developing a joint database to track and report actions taken by the industry in response to RAIB recommendations. Our relationship with RSSB In 2013-14 we approved amendments to RSSB's constitution agreement and the addition of HS2 as a member. We participated as an observer at RSSB's board, which annually reviews mainline railway safety risks to passengers, the workforce and public . RSSB‟s board annually reviews and issues reports on the completeness of the data it collects . We also participated in a number of RSSB-facilitated groups focused on collaboratively managing risk effectively within the industry and that oversees, or makes decisions about, the mainline industry's standards and research. We use RSSB's safety risk model and precursor indicator model, and their other periodic safety reports, to help inform our view of the mainline industry's safety performance, including providing data for mandatory European reporting requirements. During 2013-14, RSSB published an industry road-map to improve occupational health and issued a range of guidance materials on their website to which we contributed. This included a filmed case study on our stress risk assessment using the HSE's management standards and for the Track Safety Alliance about the risks posed from ballast dust. RSSB's 'costs of impaired health across the network' report noted that the total annual cost of impaired health to the industry was around £790m. By comparison, the total spend on occupational health and wellness programmes is evaluated at approximately £24m each year, which averages out at £201 per person per annum. Using these figures, for every £13 lost to sickness absence amongst railway employees, only £1 is spent on supporting their health. A 10% reduction in overall impaired health costs would realise a saving of £79 million. Last updated - 29 August 2014 
file_626.txt|Managing risks at level crossings Managing risks at level crossings Our policy on managing the risks from level crossings and how this should be carried out. We expect level crossing risks to be appropriately controlled. We encourage innovative solutions to level crossing problems. In all cases a risk assessment will need to show that due consideration has been given to safety and that risks have been reduced so far as reasonably practicable. New proposals may be constrained, to some extent, by the need for consistency for example for road signs. Where level crossings cannot be removed but are being renewed or altered, every effort should be made to improve the crossing and reduce risk to both crossing and railway users. Certain types of crossing design, particularly automatic types, whilst fit for purpose when road and rail traffic use was lower, have been more likely to be misused with potentially high consequences when collisions occur. Given the high cost when crossings are installed and their long service life, we expect that the safest suitable crossing for the site-specific risks will be selected when renewing a crossing. Where protection arrangements are set out in a level crossing order, the crossing operator is required to ensure that the order is complied with. In addition to this, however, crossing operators have general duties under the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the safety of all those using or affected by a level crossing. This means that crossing operators need to monitor regularly the suitability of arrangements and make changes when necessary. Where the crossing is subject to a level crossing order, the crossing operator should request a new or amended order to reflect these changes. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_695.txt|Underspend and efficiency Underspend and efficiency It is important for the viability and development of the railway that Network Rail delivers its outputs at the least possible cost in order to minimise the financial burden on both its customers and funders. In order to facilitate this, in 2006 we published our policy on monitoring underspend and efficiency. Further information 
file_471.txt|Government Government A summary of the different government bodies we work with as part of our role as the safety and economic regulator of Britain's railways. The Department for Transport (DfT) has overall responsibility for transport including rail. It sets strategy and funding for the railways. Responsibility for funding and specification in Scotland is devolved to Scottish Ministers; some responsibilities are also devolved to the Welsh Government. The Secretary of State for Transport, on behalf of government, appoints members of our board . Devolved powers enable Scotland and Wales to have their own bodies to look after transport (including rail) issues. Department for Transport The Department for Transport's role is to provide strategic direction and funding to the railways and to procure rail franchises and projects. 
file_887.txt|Other contract decisions Other contract decisions This page contains all other decisions made in the last six months. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . Date 
file_215.txt|The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Benzodiazepines learning module Benzodiazepines are prescribed widely, mainly for the management of anxiety, insomnia and epilepsy; other indications include management of alcohol withdrawal, muscle spasm, and sedation in dental and medical procedures and in surgery. This module identifies the most important hazards of benzodiazepines and informs health professionals how to anticipate, minimise and manage the risks. Go to the Benzodiazepines learning module Opioids learning module Opioids are prescribed very widely, mainly for managing pain. This module identifies the most important hazards of opioids and informs on actions that health professionals can take in order to anticipate, minimise and manage the risks. This training module is for medical, nursing and pharmaceutical professions. It is suitable for those nearing the end of their formal training or those who have recently completed such training. Health professionals who are established in practice will also find the module a helpful refresher. Go to the opioids learning module SSRI learning module Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) form the most widely prescribed class of antidepressants. This module identifies the most important hazards of SSRIs and informs on actions that health professionals should take in order to minimise and manage the risks. This training module is for medical, nursing and pharmaceutical professions. It is suitable for those nearing the end of their formal training or those who have recently completed such training. Also, health professionals will find the module a helpful refresher, for example, at the start of a posting in clinical psychiatry. 
file_199.txt|
file_545.txt|ROGS safety certificates and authorisations issued by us for non-mainline operators. All certificates and authorisations listed on this page are currently valid. Name of SC/SA applicant 
file_318.txt|Browse reports / data Rail infrastructure, assets and environmental This section includes data on the average age of rolling stock in service for each of the train operating companies and the volume of passenger and freight CO2 emissions. It also includes details on the infrastructure of the GB rail network, covering the condition and capability of the network. Rail infrastructure, assets and environmental Reports 
file_53.txt|Closing a scheme Scheme governance and controls Advise trustees about how they must establish and operate internal controls that enable them to identify, evaluate and manage the risks that relate to their defined benefit pension scheme. Set up and maintain your own controls and procedures to ensure you provide a good quality, accurate service for your clients. On this page Detailed guidance Key points Ensure that your clients’ defined benefit (DB) schemes have adequate internal controls that enable trustees and their advisers to manage risks relating to their scheme. Set up and maintain your own procedures and controls to ensure you provide a good service for clients. Help to ensure that schemes have a process that enables trustees to identify, evaluate and manage risks on an ongoing basis. Internal controls DB schemes need to have adequate internal controls that enable trustees and their advisers to manage their scheme according to the scheme rules and the law. You should also set up and maintain your own controls and procedures to ensure you provide a good quality, accurate service for your clients. Internal controls for trustees and their schemes are arrangements and procedures for: scheme administration and management monitoring that administration and management safe custody and security of scheme assets. Back to top Risk management process DB schemes should have a process that enables trustees and their advisers to identify, evaluate and manage risks, and to monitor risk management controls. You may be asked to provide advice on this process. Identifying risks You may be asked to help trustees to identify the risks that are critical to the scheme and which are likely to have a significant impact on the scheme’s ability to provide member benefits if they are not managed effectively. Areas of risk that are likely to have a significant impact on your clients’ DB schemes include: existing controls not operating effectively strength of the employer covenant investment strategy corporate changes and transactions relevant to the scheme legal requirements operational procedures and technical systems scheme management (including costs) and delegated responsibilities. Your clients should record identified risks in a risk register. Evaluating risks You may be asked to help trustees to develop a process for evaluating risks. This should consider the impact and likelihood of a risk occurring. The evaluation process should enable your clients to direct resources to priority areas. Start with risks that have a high impact and a high likelihood of occurring. Areas of risk that may need to be prioritised include: lack of trustee knowledge and understanding deterioration of the employer covenant poor investment governance conflicts of interest ineffective relations with advisers. You may be asked to help trustees to assess which risks the scheme can absorb without the need to take further action, and which risks need to be managed. Managing risks You should work with your clients to ensure that internal controls are suitably designed and implemented. They need to enable trustees and their advisers to take appropriate action. Monitoring risk management controls You may be asked to advise trustees in relation to their need to continually review exposure to new and emerging risks. This includes significant changes in or affecting the scheme. Trustees must make sure the risk register is reviewed at least annually and evaluate risk assessment arrangements, procedures and systems to ensure that they are still fit for purpose, taking account of any significant changes. Back to top Integrated risk management You should help trustees to take an integrated approach to managing employer covenant, investment and funding risks. Go to funding . 
file_324.txt|Investor in people Investor in people The Investor in People (IiP) standard helps organisations to improve performance and realise objectives through the management and development of their people. The Office of Rail Regulation first achieved Investor in People accreditation in March 2001. We were successfully re-accredited in October 2004, February 2007 and February 2012. 
file_333.txt|
file_698.txt|Consents issued to Network Rail Consents issued to Network Rail Consents are considered where Network Rail approaches us to undertake activities that are restricted by conditions in its network licence pdf icon PDF, 231 Kb . Conditions 4, 5 and 7 The main conditions where Network Rail applies for consent are conditions 4 (Financial ring-fence), 5 (Interests in rolling stock and train operators) and 7 (Land disposal). Consents are issued on the basis of the information provided to us by Network Rail and having regard in particular to our section 4 duties . You can find further details of consents given at: 
file_951.txt|Skip to content Skip to navigation Office for Nuclear Regulation This website uses non-intrusive cookies to improve your user experience. You can visit our cookie privacy page for more information. 
file_987.txt|Home Back A consultation on the relevance of qualifications for the Raising the Participation Age policy and estimating the size of qualifications. The consultation will run for 12 weeks and is running alongside an accompanying consultation on the Qualifications and Credit Framework (QCF). Read the consultation You can download a copy of the consultation document in PDF format [PDF, 599KB] There is a version in Word format [DOCX, 212KB] that you can fill in and send back to us. You can also browse the online version from the left hand navigation bar. This consultation closed to responses on Thursday, 16th October 2014. Contents: 
file_950.txt|Skip to content Skip to navigation Office for Nuclear Regulation This website uses non-intrusive cookies to improve your user experience. You can visit our cookie privacy page for more information. 
file_859.txt|Correspondence Correspondence Our letters to stakeholders are listed in date order below. For earlier correspondence please visit the National Archives . Letter to Claire Moriarty, director general Rail Executive, Department for Transport, regarding the independent review being carried out by the ORR under its statutory powers into the disruption experienced by rail passengers between Christmas and New Year 2014. 29 Dec 2014 Letter to RDG following delays in establishing the industry plan for passenger information during disruption as originally outlined in our 23 September 2014 letter to the industry. 19 Dec 2014 Disabled People’s Protection Policy compliance and approval process pdf icon PDF, 330 Kb An open letter to all train operators setting out: changes to the Disabled People’s Protections Policy approval process; and, areas where some operators may not be compliant with the requirements of Condition 5 of the Passenger and Station licences and the Statement of National Regulatory Provisions. 18 Dec 2014 These letters report our assessment of Network Rail's performance and delivery in the first six months of CP5, and issues to be explored in preparation for CP6. 16 Dec 2014 This letter describes our proposed approach to conduct a review of Network Rail’s structure of charges working with the industry. 5 Dec 2014 Sustained poor performance pdf icon PDF, 165 Kb In response to a request from Network Rail, regarding the intention of the sustained poor performance (SPP) regime in the model track access contract, we responded by letter to Network Rail setting out how we intend the SPP regime to work, and have circulated this to the industry and published it here. 14 Nov 2014 Our position on improving passenger information during disruption (PIDD) and on the next steps 23 Sep 2014 Letter to South West Trains regarding its policy for aural announcements at London Waterloo Station 16 Sep 2014 Summary of our Board discussion 12 Jun 2014 
file_306.txt|Your browser does not support iframes. Export and Save 
file_913.txt|Keep up to date with ORR and access all the latest news, speeches and presentations. All enquiries from journalists must be directed to our press team . Sign up to receive email alerts or follow us on Twitter to get our news delivered to you. 
file_557.txt|Health and safety report 2014 Health and safety annual report 2013-14 Our report on health and safety on Britain's railways in 2013-14: a foreword by the Office of Rail Regulation's Chief Executive and Director of Railway Safety. Download the health and safety annual report 2013-14 pdf icon PDF, 1,447 Kb Britain's railways have a good recent safety record. They remain one of the safest in Europe. As we enter the new control period, we can look back and see that passenger and workforce risk decreased during the five years of the last control period (CP4: 2009 to 2014). The industry deserves credit for this improving picture and our health and safety teams have played a part – we devote close to half our resources to health and safety work. We have always been clear that better health and safety management on Britain's railways is integral to plans to expand and strengthen the industry. This 2013-14 annual report on the state of health and safety in the industry also makes clear there is some way to go before we rate this as 'excellent' and achieve our ultimate goal of zero industry-caused fatalities. This report highlights areas where risks to passengers and workers may be on the increase. Against a backdrop of plans for significant expansion over the next five years, neither the industry nor its regulator can afford to be complacent about safety management. Growth can intensify safety challenges. More trains running and more passengers travelling on the rail network means greater potential for an increase in risk. Overall we are seeing the decline in total risk over recent years on the mainline network is beginning to plateau, and that in some cases rise. Our report highlights increases in the number of trains passing signals at danger, the numbers of passenger slips, trips and falls at stations, and an increase in work-related injuries. Network Rail must also do more to get the basics right on their existing infrastructure – things like increasing repeat track faults and earthworks too overgrown to be inspected effectively are not good enough. Our inspection activity over the coming year will be focused on ensuring the industry manages growth safely, including a targeted programme on station management. There are many examples of safety excellence on Britain's railways and we want to see the industry sharing best practice more often. For example, London Underground's management of stations is world class, and there are lessons to be learnt from its effective approach to managing busy stations and platforms. We are determined to see better workforce safety. Network Rail's record is poor compared with other sectors, including other parts of the railway industry and we expect a major improvement. We will continue to work closely with the company and enforce changes where necessary to ensure that this is effectively managed. We are saddened to report on the deaths of three mainline track workers this year. We welcome the focus of Network Rail's new chief executive on prioritising worker safety over the coming year. Leadership is critical to securing better safety standards. Safety culture remains key and we are seeing evidence that organisations using our railway management maturity model (RM3) to gauge how well they are operating their safety management systems are focusing on the right areas to improve their management of risk. We are currently pressing the railways to predict and prevent problems on the network before they create a safety problem or cause disruption for passengers. This is the surest way to secure safety and growth. Richard Price, Chief Executive, ORR Ian Prosser, Director of Railway Safety, ORR In this section: 
file_183.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) The MHRA is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in the UK by ensuring they work and are acceptably safe. The MHRA is a centre of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency which also includes the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) , (external link)  and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) . (external link) The MHRA is an executive agency of the Department of Health. Who we are 
file_855.txt|BAM Nuttall Ltd P/IDC08062012 The notice was issued due to the contractors failure to have in place adequate arrangements to prevent injury or death to labour only scaffolders and staff, and exposing them to risks from working over the river during the replacement one of four rail bridges taking place on the Esk valley line in North Yorkshire. Inadequacies included poor fall arrest arrangements, no life jackets and no system for emergency rescue if someone fell into the river. 8 Jun 2012 
file_242.txt|This section contains details of Committees relating to the Devices sector - these may be accessed using the links in the left-hand navigation. Latest Committee documents for devices (90Kb) Summary minutes of the meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Devices on 7 November 2013. (142Kb) Summary minutes of the meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Devices on 1 May 2013. (63Kb) Summary minutes of the meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Devices on 22 November 2012. (77Kb) Summary minutes of the meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Devices on 19 July 2012. (102Kb) Summary minutes of the meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Devices on 2 April 2012. (170Kb) Summary minutes of the meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Devices on 3 November 2011. (103Kb) Summary minutes of the meeting of the Committee on the Safety of Devices on 7 July 2011. 
file_330.txt|
file_154.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
file_75.txt|Back to top Next steps if you have concerns about pension scams Contact the pension scheme member to establish whether they understand the type of scheme they’ll be transferring to and send them the pension scams scorpion booklet . Speak to the member at risk – over the phone, via email or letter. It could help you establish answers to more of the questions in the checklist in the pension scams action pack , where you’ve been unable to answer them with the information you have available. Direct the member to Action Fraud if you think it’s a pension scam, or the Pensions Advisory Service who can help them understand the potential tax consequences of the transfer if any part of the arrangement is deemed as unauthorised. If the member insists on proceeding with their transfer request, and your concerns remain, then you should alert Action Fraud yourself. There could still be time to protect this member, or others who follow in their footsteps. 
file_780.txt|The Network Code The Network Code This page sets out the background of the Network Code, the set of rules behind the contractual relationship between train operating companies and freight operating companies to run their trains on Network Rail infrastructure. The Network Code is a common set of rules and industry procedures that apply to all parties who have a contractual right of access to the track owned and operated by Network Rail. Network Rail manages and maintains the Network Code, and all related documentation, including the full Network Code, can be found on the Network Rail website . Our responsibility is to ensure that the Code provides appropriate contractual certainty for all affected parties and does not benefit one contractual party to a greater extent than another. If you have any questions in relation to the Network Code, please contact us . Description of the Code The Network Code sets out the industry procedures governing: the way in which service performance is monitored and measured (Part B); modifications to the Network Code (Part C); the translation of access rights into the construction of the timetable (Part D); environmental protection issues (Part E); the contractual arrangements governing changes to the trains used on the network and to the network itself (Parts F and G respectively); the Railway Operational Code (Part H); changes to access rights (Part J); the flow of information between Network Rail and other access parties (Part K); the process for establishing performance agreements between Network Rail and train operators (Part L); appeals to the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) (Part M); and the Access Dispute Resolution Rules (ADRR), setting out how disputes under access contracts are resolved, are annexed to the Network Code. Detailed explanations of each part of the Network Code can be found in on Network Rail's website . Safety responsibilities, for example through safety certificates and safety authorisations, and Railway Group Standards, take priority over Network Code obligations. Current Network Code work 
file_872.txt|End of consultation: 5 Dec 2011 A consulation on discounting for cost benefit analysis involving private investment, but public benefit. End of consultation: 4 Dec 2011 This consultation asked for stakeholder views on the potential for increased on-rail competition. Establishing Network Rail's efficient expenditure End of consultation: 14 Oct 2011 The purpose of this document was to: (a) explain our approach to establishing the level of efficient expenditure for CP5, including the methods we intend to use, the range of studies we intend to undertake and the work Network Rail will do; and (b) seek views on our proposed approach. End of consultation: 30 Sep 2011 A consultation on a review of Part J of the Network Code. First PR13 consultation End of consultation: 2 Sep 2011 In May 2011, we issued our first main consultation on the 2013 periodic review (PR13). A periodic review is a programme of work through which decisions are made on what outputs Network Rail should deliver and the levels of access charges payable by train operators and other sources of funding the company receives. End of consultation: 23 Aug 2011 A consultation on consolidation and revision of freight general approvals. End of consultation: 22 Jul 2011 A consultation on a review of the decision criteria in Part D of the Network Code. 
file_582.txt|Occupational health progress reports Progress reports on our occupational health programme We have published annual updates on progress with key activities of the occupational health programme since 2010. In 2014, we commissioned an evaluation of the impact of the first four-year programme on the railway industry. Please see the evaluation report pdf icon PDF, 642 Kb and presentation pdf icon PDF, 775 Kb on the findings. We will use the lessons learnt in delivering the new 2014-19 occupational health programme. Our progress so far is set out in the following annual assessments. 
file_577.txt|Performance in 2012-13 An overview of the mainline railway's health and safety performance in 2012-13 An overview of railway health and safety performance on Britain's mainline railway in 2012-13, including safety trend performance and the mainline railway's precursor indicator model. Rail remains a safer mode of transport than road, but both are growing ever safer because human factor risks are being increasingly designed-out, innovative technology and processes are being applied, lessons are being learnt from other industries; and the sustained cultural shift from a remedy and compensate cultures to an invest and prevent approach. Source: RSSB Passenger safety – overall picture Passenger usage continues to grow and has increased by over 45% in the last decade, despite global macro-economic pressures. The long- term trend in passenger injuries per million journeys has continued to decrease gradually since 2002-03. Source: ORR data Source: ORR data Passenger fatalities and weighted injuries When normalised by increases in passenger journeys, the passenger fatalities and weighted injuries measure has remained broadly static since 2008-9, but normalised passenger harm increased 3% in 2012-13. Normalised passenger fatalities and weighted injuries rate since 2003-4 Source: RSSB Workforce fatality and weighted injuries Source: RSSB When normalised by workforce hours worked, workforce harm reduced 11% compared to 2011-12 which aligns with the gradual decline in workforce risk since 2006-7. Trends in infrastructure worker fatalities and weighted injuries Source: RSSB. Class 1 are minor injuries requiring employees to be off work for more than three days Since 2008-09, the infrastructure workers fatalities and weighed injury trend has improved, but this reversed in 2012-13; primarily because of the risk weighting associated with the two mainline infrastructure worker fatalities. Comparison of passenger and workforce fatality rates across the European Union railways, 2007-11 Source: RSSB analysis based on Eurostat data normalised by train kilometres. The analysis is based only on train in motion data. The ERA is seeking to improved data quality by clarifying current disparities in different countries accident data definitions. Overall, the UK ranks as joint-first safest with three other European countries based on the number of train safety incidents. The UK was best amongst all European rail countries in managing passenger and level crossing rail safety; third at managing employee safety; and fifth for trespass, according to ERA safety common safety indicators. The relatively small train safety datasets the ERA uses are susceptible to the heavy weighting applied to fatal rail accidents; Britain's last passenger train incident fatality was at Grayrigg in 2007. The overarching picture on the mainline railway: Precursor Indicator Model (PIM) The PIM measures the underlying risk from the potential to cause train accidents and therefore the potential to cause harm to passengers, members of the public, including users of level crossing motorists, on Britain's mainline railways. Source: RSSB PIM v. 7.5 (up to March 2013) It is important to view the PIM as an illustrative model; it shows changes in the potential risk based on historical data. The current PIM shows that train accident risk has remained at about the same level since September 2009 and has increased over 2012-13. The increase in risk over 2012-13 was primarily because of a significant increase in infrastructure failures, including landslips, flood damage and track faults. The poor condition of the infrastructure made it less resilient to heavy rain and severe weather. This lead to a 34% increase passenger train accident risk since December 2011. With the exception of a fall in objects on the line events, all five other incident precursor elements of the PIM increased in 2012-13 compared to 2011-12; the second largest increase was SPAD risk, followed by public behaviour at level crossings, irregular working and train and rolling stock risks – see comparative PIM precursor trend chart below. PIM precursor trends over 2012-13 Improving industry safety risk modelling The changes in PIM scores because of mainline infrastructure failures in 2012-13 has helped to identify the limitations in how well the current PIM accurately models the risks from such precursors. As currently designed, the PIM is insufficiently sophisticated to show the susceptibility of lower-order infrastructure risk precursors to adverse weather. We have continued to encourage the industry to improve safety risk modelling. RSSB is working to provide a greater understanding of the composition of their safety risk models and enable evaluation of route-related health and safety performance analysis, reflecting Network Rail's devolved structure. Network Rail is progressing work using a technique known as 'Bow Tie' approach to risk analysis which focus effort on ensuring that risk controls are implemented, operating and effective. This is a significant step-change from focussing mainly on the PIM and historical incidents and accidents to model risk. The two models are complementary and together provide greater understanding and assurance of health and safety performance. LUL continues to use the QRA approach to model system risk. The QRA is structured differently to the SRM; its strength is it draws out a much greater link to causal factors in the management chain. This enables it to assess the effectiveness of risk controls and provide assurance. It relies less on the historical incident information and more on the judgement of expert to identify what could go wrong in the future, and how that may happen. The QRA tool is widely used to understand risk within the engineering and operations functions on a Line-basis. We continue to work with LUL as they systematically review their risk health and safety models. LUL is looking at root-cause to improve their risk assessment processes and a second, producing a long-term update plan for the major accident risk models across all of TfL's operations. Trends in Potentially High Risk Train Accidents (PHRTAs) There was one more PHRTA than in 2011-12; overall there has been a gradual downward trend since 2008-9. Derailments and 'collisions with road vehicles not causing a derailment' are the primary incidents that make up the PHRTA trend in 2012-13; this is similar to 2011-12. Source: RSSB Wrong-side failures The moving annual average of wrong-side failure incidents increased in 2012-13, ending at its highest level since early 2011-12, but still lower than 2010-11. All categories, with the exception of track failures, increased in 2012-13 compared to 2011-12: earthworks, electrification and power failures increased, which illustrates weaknesses in Network Rail's asset management. Several of these incidents also caused heavy impacts on service delivery. Source: Network Rail's safety, Health and Environment Peformance report All trespass and suicide fatalities Source: ORR data There were 238 rail suicides in 2011-12 and 2012-13; the incident trend has varied annual but has gradually increased since 2002. This is a sensitive and sometimes over-looked area, so Network Rail should be commended for its sustained leadership and work with the Samaritans in trying to reduce potential suicide events. We will continue to ensure that all duty holders follow health and safety legislation that might reduce incidents of trespass and suicide. Level crossings There were nine level crossing fatalities in 2012-13: four pedestrians and five occupants of road vehicles, which resulted in a 7% increase in the PIM measured level crossing risk, mostly attributed to unsafe user-behaviour at crossings. This increase follows two years of improvements. The small datasets involved make analysis difficult but level crossings risk still represents about half of the potential catastrophic train accident risk. We hope the additional resourcing proposed for CP5 will help build on the improvements in level crossing risk reduction seen in 2010-12. Network Rail reports that up until April 2013, its had reduced level crossing risk by 22.8%, putting it on-target to meet its 25% risk reduction target by the end of CP4. In CP5, we expect Network Rail to maximise the risk reduction at level crossings using funding provided by the final determination. Harm at level crossings (excluding suicides) Source: RSSB Data quality RSSB annually uses different tools to health-check the data it collects from its mainline members to ensure reliability. Its 2012 assessments found a slight deterioration in the data quality rate to 88% from 90% in 2011; something they will need to seriously work on to review: seven of its stakeholders improved; eight worsened; and 15-companies maintained similar data quality. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_676.txt|CP5 price lists CP5 price lists and related documentation On 20 December 2013, Network Rail published its price lists and schedules of charges for control period 5 (CP5). This coincided with the publication of our review notices setting out the changes we proposed to make to relevant access contracts and Network Rail's network licence to implement PR13. This page sets out documentation relating to the price lists. Please note that Network Rail has committed to provide versions of the price lists in the most recent price base for each year of CP5. See Network Rail's access charges web page for further information on this. Price lists / charging schedules (in 2012-13 prices) Approval of capacity charge baselines pdf icon PDF, 77 Kb Other documentation relating to the price lists In July 2013, we consulted Network Rail and each train operator on how we should treat the bespoke provisions within their track access contracts for the purposes of PR13 implementation. In particular, this was to inform whether any such provisions should be continued into CP5. In most cases, Network Rail and the train operator were able to agree on an appropriate approach. However, in some cases we were required to determine the outcome. For the track access contract between Network Rail and North Yorkshire Moors Railway Enterprises PLC, the parties were unable to agree on the access charges to be applied for specific types of vehicle. For transparency, we have published our decision here as it relates to the Track Usage Price List. 
file_286.txt|Skip to content Skip to navigation Office for Nuclear Regulation This website uses non-intrusive cookies to improve your user experience. You can visit our cookie privacy page for more information. 
file_410.txt|HSE RSS feeds on your mobile phone Mobile enabled browsing Mobile users can choose to browse HSE RSS feeds in mobile optimised view – just select “Mobile theme” at the foot of pages. Bookmark HSE RSS feeds Make a permanent link to HSE RSS feeds for easy regular access. RSS Feed Reader Apps Many “smart” mobile phones, such as iPhone, Blackerry and Android can access HSE RSS feeds through Apps, which are often free to use. HSE provides a wide range of free heath and safety updates via RSS feeds. To use HSE RSS feeds on your mobile follow these steps: Choose a RSS feed reader App on your mobile (many are free to use) Follow the setup instructions, when prompted for a RSS feed URL, select from the list below. 
file_537.txt|Compliance with ROGS Compliance with ROGS This page explains how we check that dutyholders are complying with the requirements of ROGS and our processes for carrying out this work. Compliance with ROGS The Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (Safety Regulations) 2006 (ROGS) were introduced across the industry in April 2006. Changes were made in 2011 and 2013. For further details, please see the ROGS page. Inspectors assess that railway operators and railway infrastructure managers on the mainline railway are complying with the requirements by carrying out random inspections. The reason for this is to check that dutyholders in the rail industry have management systems in place and that they are effective in controlling the health and safety risks. We also target risk areas of particular concern under what are called mandatory inspection programmes. In other words, we will visit the industry to check for very specific things related to ROGS, which is part of our wider health and safety strategy . Safety critical tasks The requirements of ROGS will apply to all dutyholders working on a transport system. Dutyholders with an established safety management system (SMS) must also detail how safety critical work is managed. Safety critical tasks must be carried out by a competent person, and include driving and dispatching trains, signalling, installation of components and maintenance, ensuring safety of persons working on the track. Any worker carrying out duties as part of training to become a safety critical worker must be supervised by a competent safety critical worker at all times. What happens during an inspection or audit? We will issue a safety certificate (or 'authorisation' for infrastructure managers) indicating that we have checked and approved their safety management system (SMS) and that they have the authority to operate. An inspection plan will be prepared which will detail the topics for inspection over the validity period of the certificate or authorisation. The inspection plan will feature mandatory topics for inspection, issues arising from the assessment of the safety certificate or authorisation application and during its progression over time, also focus on actions arising from previous inspections, investigations and recommendations from RAIB and other investigatory bodies Our regular inspection activities allow us to check compliance with other specific regulations, such as those relating to working at height, construction and design management. We focus on making sure that health and safety risks are controlled, so far as is reasonably practicable (or beyond if required by specific legislation). General safety management system arrangements We have developed a tool which will aid our judgement on the capability of dutyholders' health and safety management systems. This tool is known as the Railway Management Maturity Model (RM3) pdf icon PDF, 413 Kb . We refer to our activities relating to management systems as TEMS – techniques for the evaluation of management systems. The overall purpose of TEMS is to identify whether the management arrangements provide and maintain risk-control systems that protect the safety of people affected by the organisation's activities. A lead inspector is able to build up a picture of an organisation's ability to deliver excellence in risk control using TEMS.  TEMS helps lead inspectors to have a consistent approach when evaluating this picture. What happens after an inspection? After an inspection, we provide advice and information to those being inspected, if appropriate. This is so that they are able to meet the requirements of ROGS. A report detailing the findings of the inspection will also be produced and sent to the dutyholder. If we feel it is necessary, we may use our enforcement powers. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_147.txt|B back end loading An arrangement between trustees and employer allowing the employer to make good a deficit by paying the extra contributions needed in unequal instalments. The early instalments will be smaller than the later ones. This expression is used in relation to the recovery plan. Barber judgement The European Court judgement which established that men and women should be treated equally in relation to their pensions. The judgement was handed down on 17 May 1990 and this became the reference date for all changes to scheme benefit rules to comply with the ruling. Despite this, state benefits remain unequal and will remain so for many years to come and this creates difficulties for schemes with GMPs in relation to equalisation. Barber window The time period which elapsed between the Barber judgement in the European Court (17 May 1990) and the date on which the scheme complied (or is due to comply) with the ruling that scheme benefits should be equalised between men and women. basic state pension The flat rate (not earnings related) state pension paid to all who have met the minimum NI contribution requirements, their spouses, subject to certain conditions, and widow(er)s. bear market A market in which equity prices are falling and sellers are more predominant than buyers. It is the opposite of a bull market, in which prices are rising and there are more buyers than sellers. benchmark A measure against which fund management performance is to be judged. A series of appropriate indices is chosen which reflects the requirements of the trustees. Usually a target is set which requires an agreed percentage better performance from the fund manager than the benchmark. beneficiary A member of a pension scheme who is entitled to a benefit from the scheme or a dependant who will become entitled on the death of the member. benefit schedule A schedule prepared by the administrators listing all scheme members (including dependants in receipt of benefits), and the benefits to which they are entitled. Usually drawn up when the administration is changing hands (eg when a scheme is being transferred to the PPF). benefits Any payments made to a beneficiary, including tax-free lump sums, pension payments and death benefits. benefits consultant Benefits consultants advise on remuneration and pension benefits. They may be retained by the employer or the trustees or both. They may be scheme actuaries. benefits statement A statement or estimate of benefits payable in respect of an individual's membership of a pension scheme, eg annually during employment, on retirement, in the event of wind up. beta Returns on a portfolio which can be attributed to movements in the market as a whole, rather than the skills of a particular fund manager. Usually achieved by holding a portfolio which exactly mirrors a particular index, eg the FTSE 350. See also: alpha . bonds Loans made to an issuer (often the Government or a company) which undertakes to repay the loan at an agreed later date. The term refers generically to corporate bonds or government bonds (gilts). However, in common parlance, the term bond is more likely to be used with reference to a corporate bond, while the term gilt refers exclusively to government investments, including index-linked gilts. BR19 The form submitted by an individual to the Benefits Agency requesting a statement, estimating their state pension entitlement. It can be submitted up to four months before retirement age. breach of trust Any act or omission on the part of the trustee that is inconsistent with the terms of the trust agreement or the law of trusts. bull market A market in which equity prices are rising and buyers are more predominant than sellers. It is the opposite of a bear market, in which prices are falling and there are more sellers than buyers buy-out The purchase of an annuity for each member of a scheme which will guarantee pension benefits as nearly as possible equal to those which would otherwise be paid by the scheme. buy-out debt The amount of money required to purchase life assurance annuities for each member of a scheme which will guarantee pension benefits equal to those which would otherwise be paid by the scheme. This may also be referred to as the 'section 75 debt' or 'debt on the employer'. C call option A contract with a bank which is paid for up front and which will allow the investor to buy certain specified assets at an agreed price at some time in the future, even if the market value of those assets at that time is more than that agreed price. capital markets The markets in which capital is raised initially through the issue of shares (equities) and loans (bonds) and then subsequently traded. The stock market (dealing with the trading of equities) forms a significant, but by no means only, part of the capital market. cash balance scheme A type of scheme in which a percentage of salary is set aside each year for each member. The employer undertakes to ensure that each annual contribution will grow by a specified amount which is linked to prevailing interest rates. At retirement, the member's minimum accumulated fund will be determined by the specified minimum rate of growth for each contribution. It may bear no relation to levels of pay and it may be considerably higher than the minimum, if investments have been successful. cash flow The amount of actual money being received and spent. In the case of a pension scheme, the amount of money being received into the scheme in contributions and investment returns and the amount of money being paid out by the scheme. In common parlance, in the case of DB schemes, projected cash flows usually refer to cash required in the future by the trustees to pay for pension liabilities when they fall due. closed scheme A pension scheme which does not admit new members. Contributions may or may not continue and benefits may or may not be provided for future service. codes of practice The Pensions Regulator's codes of practice give practical information about how trustees can comply with legal requirements, and set out the standards of conduct and practice expected. combined code The combined code on corporate governance sets out standards of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition and development, remuneration, accountability and audit and relations with shareholders. The code was devised and is maintained by the Financial Reporting Council. See also: listing rules . commutation factors Commutation factors dictate the extent to which pension benefits are increased or reduced by late or early retirement. They also determine the relationship between the lump sum taken (if any) and the level of the remaining pension. Companies House An executive agency of the department for business, enterprise and regulatory reform (BERR), which examines and stores company information delivered under the Companies Act and related legislation and makes this information available to the public on request. This includes annual financial statements from every limited company, whether or not it is quoted on any exchange. compromise agreement A legal agreement, the effect of which is to reduce the amount of the debt due from a sponsoring employer to a scheme under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995. Where a compromise agreement has been reached, a scheme will not usually be eligible for PPF compensation, unless the PPF agreed to the compromise at the time it was made. conflicts of interest A conflict, for example, between: a trustee's interest as an employee, eg financial director, and his or her duty as a trustee the duty of a professional to the employer as well as to the trustees, where they are acting for both contingent assets Assets which are owned by the employer and which may be offered as security to the trustees of a pension scheme in deficit, where the employer covenant is weak and where the contribution required is not acceptable to the employer. contracted in Commonly used to describe a scheme which is not contracted out of the State Second Pension (S2P, previously SERPS) – ie where the members continue to be entitled to S2P. See also: contracted out . contracted out Commonly used to describe a scheme which provides benefits in place of the State Second Pension (S2P, previously SERPS). Currently these benefits from the scheme are paid for by means of a rebate of the relevant NI contributions. See also: contracted in , contracting out certificate . contracting out certificate The certificate issued by HMRC, in respect of an occupational pension scheme which satisfies the conditions for contracting out. See also: contracted out . contribution holiday A period during which normal employer contributions are temporarily suspended, usually when the fund is in surplus. Very exceptionally, members' regular contributions could also be suspended. contributory scheme A scheme which requires contributions from active members (even if such contributions are temporarily suspended during a contribution holiday). corporate bonds A bond with a fixed interest rate issued by a company for a fixed period of time. corporate lawyer A specialist in the legal implications of changes in the ownership of companies or significant changes in corporate structures. corporate trustee See also: articles of association and trust corporation . coupon The fixed rate of interest paid at prescribed intervals to the owner of a bond. The value of index-linked gilts increases each year with inflation, which has the effect of increasing the amount of the interest paid. current unit method A method of calculating technical provisions which takes no account of future salary increases which are over and above inflation. custodian A financial institution set up as a corporate trustee and independent of the investment management function to store and safeguard a scheme's assets, including the maintenance of accurate records of ownership. It may also collect income, produce tax reclaims and provide other services where required, such as stock lending. custody of assets The storing and safekeeping of securities (scheme assets) together with maintenance of accurate records of ownership and the management of those securities, eg the collection of dividends and other activities where required, such as stock lending. 
file_390.txt|Risk and disability Risk management This site provides guidance and tools to help businesses understand what they need to do to assess and control risks in the workplace and comply with health and safety law. Although written with small businesses in mind, the site is relevant to all businesses. 
file_262.txt|Stay safe using natural remedies Did you know…? 40% people think herbal medicines are safe because they are natural. Ipsos MORI / MHRA, 2008 Herbal remedies are medicines. As with any other medicine, you should use them with care while first ensuring they are the correct products for you. Stay safe using natural remedies campaign Is it safe just because it’s natural? Find out the answer to this and other questions about natural remedies. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Using herbal medicines safely This page provides information for consumers on how to use herbal medicines safely, including general safety advice and traditional Chinese medicines. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Herbal safety updates 
file_275.txt|09 Apr 2013 ~ Public consultation on Medical Devices (Amendment) Regulations 2013 The MHRA is seeking views on its approach to implementing into UK law the Commission Regulations 722/2012 on animal tissues and Commission Regulation 207/2012 on e-labelling. 
file_598.txt|Enforcement penalties Health and safety enforcement penalties This page lists the maximum penalties that are available on conviction for health and safety offences in the Magistrates' Courts and the Crown Court. Health and safety offences: mode of trial and maximum penalty The mode of trial and maximum penalty applicable to each offence listed in the first column of the following table are as set out opposite that offence in the subsequent columns of the table. Penalty on summary conviction Penalty on conviction on indictment An offence under section 33(1)(a) consisting of a failure to discharge a duty to which a person is subject by virtue of sections 2 to 6 Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding £20,000, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. An offence under section 33(1)(a) consisting of a failure to discharge a duty to which a person is subject by virtue of section 7 Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. An offence under section 33(1)(b) consisting of a contravention of section 8 Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding £20,000, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. An offence under section 33(1)(b) consisting of a contravention of section 9 Summarily A fine not exceeding £20,000. A fine. An offence under section 33(1)(c) Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding £20,000, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. An offence under section 33(1)(d) Summarily A fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale. An offence under section 33(1)(e), (f) or (g) Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding £20,000, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. An offence under section 33(1)(h) Summarily only Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks (in England and Wales) or 12 months (in Scotland), or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or both. An offence under section 33(1)(i) Summarily A fine not exceeding the statutory maximum. A fine. An offence under section 33(1)(j) Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. An offence under section 33(1)(k), (l) or (m) Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding £20,000, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. An offence under section 33(1)(n) Summarily A fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale. An offence under section 33(1)(o) Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding £20,000, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. An offence under the existing statutory provisions for which no other penalty is specified Summarily or on indictment Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or a fine not exceeding £20,000, or both. Imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or a fine, or both. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_595.txt|Enforcement Health and safety enforcement As well as giving advice to the industry, we also have a range of formal enforcement powers given to us under the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. These are: improvement notices; formal caution. Enforcement powers Sections 21 and 22 of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 describes the powers of inspectors to serve improvement and prohibition enforcement notices. Section 33 describes the offences under the Act. These powers relates to all enforcing authorities of the Health and Safety at Work Act. The Health and Safety (Enforcing Authority For Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems) Regulations 2006 ( EARR ) set out the enforcement responsibilities of ORR. EARR was amended in 2008 to improve clarity in the division of enforcement responsibility. Activities or premises not allocated to ORR for enforcement under EARR Activities are subject to enforcement by either the Health & Safety Executive (HSE) or Local Authorities according to the Health and Safety (Enforcing Authority) Regulations 1998 (EA98). Read more about our enforcement powers Enforcement policy Our health and safety enforcement policy statement pdf icon PDF, 228 Kb is an important document explaining how we will enforce health and safety law. In order to provide a framework which assists inspectors in making consistent enforcement decisions, we have adopted the HSE's Enforcement Management Model . This model sets out a number of factors to be considered when deciding whether to take enforcement action and what level of enforcement action should be taken. Rail guidance document 2003-04 pdf icon PDF, 41 Kb explains how our inspectors should use the model. We have also published ORR specific guidance pdf icon PDF, 965 Kb setting out additional instructions for using the EMM in the railway context. Read more about our enforcement policy Enforcement penalties This section provides details of the sanctions presently available to the courts in respect of health and safety prosecutions. It has been updated to reflect the Health and Safety (Offences) Act 2008. Read more about our enforcement penalties Enforcement action taken This section gives details of those in the rail industry to whom we have issued improvement or prohibition notices , and those we have prosecuted since 2006, subject to the requirements of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, as amended.Copies of improvement and prohibition notices can be found on our public register . 
file_282.txt|MHRA Website general feedback form Please use this form to comment on our website. If you would like to report a technical problem with our site please use our MHRA website technical problem form. The information we receive from you is used to help improve the website. All sections of this form are optional. Section 1 is for any general comments about the MHRA website. Section 2 asks for your views on certain areas of the website. Section 3 asks about how and why you use the website. In the final section you can give your contact details so we can get in touch with you if required. 1.General Comments Please rate the following aspects of the site: Poor 
file_717.txt|Portsmouth resignalling documentation Portsmouth resignalling documentation On 30 July 2007, we imposed a penalty of £2.4m for Network Rail's breach of its licence in failing adequately to evaluate and mitigate the risks associated with the Portsmouth resignalling project and to manage its contractor in line with best practice. The documents below provide more background to our decision. 
file_1003.txt|Welcome Dear Candidate Thank you for your interest in working at Monitor.  I am delighted that you are considering applying for a role in our expanding organisation. Monitor plays a pivotal role in regulating the health sector. If you are looking for a real opportunity to make a difference to health care, Monitor is the organisation for you - whether you have a health sector background or not. Working at Monitor is rewarding, challenging and makes a real difference to people's lives. Monitor has established a reputation for being a professional, knowledgeable and focused organisation. Our staff have helped to build this reputation and we are keen to recruit new, exceptional people who will enhance and maintain the high standards we pride ourselves on. We are keen to encourage individuals to consider working at Monitor who have the necessary experience, expertise, professionalism as well as a passion to improve health care. If you think that you have what it takes to make an impact and can demonstrate a relevant track record of achievement in your career to date, then we would very much like to hear from you. Dr David Bennett Chair and Chief Executive 
file_352.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_850.txt|Infrastructure Ltd I/20131119/JSM Following an incident in March 2012 where a Network Rail contractor received an electric shock from a signal location cabinet, an Improvement Notice was served on Network Rail which required them to review their 650V signalling distribution equipment. The results of this review showed that significant numbers of cabinets in public places were not earthed or bonded – which was contrary to the assurances given by Network Rail. This IN requires NR to perform a review of all cabinets in public places, and to ensure that earthing and bonding is installed in all of them. Additionally, it requires NR to introduce a maintenance process to ensure that all cabinets remain in a safe condition. 19 Nov 2013 
file_806.txt|How to apply How to apply for a licence or a licence exemption Information about applying for a licence or licence exemption, the costs involved and the application forms you will need to download. How do I make an application? You need to decide if you are applying for a licence or licence exemption, and read the appropriate guidelines. For any licensing queries please email licensing enquiries . How much does a licence cost? Licence applicants have to pay a fee of £250. No fee is charged for licence exemption or SNRP-only applications. There are other costs associated with the various licence conditions for example: the premium required to purchase third party liability insurance; and the cost involved in becoming a signatory to the Claims Handling and Allocation Agreement (CAHA) and RSSB . Holders of licences may also have to contribute to the costs of the British Transport Police Authority (BTPA). Timescales The timescale for your application will depend on the complexity involved in any specific application. You should allow at least 12 weeks for straightforward applications with all the suggested information prepared. Allow longer in other cases. You will find it useful to discuss your application well in advance of making it. Please remember it is a criminal offence to operate without an appropriate licence. Last updated - 8 May 2014 
file_804.txt|Review of existing CHPs Review of existing CHPs For current operators with an approved CHP we have ended the practice of operators seeking annual re-approval of existing CHPs where no material changes have been made. This was set out in our letter to operators of 15 April 2014 pdf icon PDF, 134 Kb . Current operators with existing CHPs should: continue to apply its existing CHP and to evaluate its own performance in line with the 2005 guidance on complaint handling pdf icon PDF, 70 Kb ; but where a 'material change' to an existing CHP is proposed to advise ORR. Unless proposing a material change, operators should not expect to submit their CHPs to ORR unless specifically asked to do so. Operators proposing to make a material change should consult, as a minimum, with relevant passenger representative groups (as required by the licence), and provide a report to ORR that includes: the feedback from the consultation a marked-up copy of the revised CHP a description of proposed changes and the reasons for the changes, including an explanation of how the consultation feedback has been taken into account an explanation of the impact or outcomes on passengers from the proposed changes Criteria and process for approval Criteria Operators must determine the procedures they wish to follow to handle complaints. Our approval of complaints is made on a judgement of whether the proposed CHP is: fit for purpose, to ensure complaints are dealt with fairly, objectively and within a reasonable period of time given the seriousness of the complaint raised; kept under review, with sufficient management information to judge the effectiveness of existing complaint handling procedures and identify improvements; and demonstrates a commitment by the operator to take complaints seriously and act on information from complaints A successful CHP will also be clear and easily accessible to passengers or other potential complaints, and will support any appeal made to Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch. To support this assessment, we will continue to rely on the existing guidance published in 2005 pdf icon PDF, 70 Kb . This will be replaced in due course. Process We will acknowledge receipt of the CHP and supporting documents within 5 working days; We aim to review and approve submitted CHP within 20 working data of receipt; Operators should expect to assist us with resolving specific queries or issues. Where we have substantive concerns we will discuss these, and allow additional time for revisions to CHP. In these cases we aim to resolve concerns within an agreed timescale. Further information 
file_374.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_830.txt|Train journey information Information about your train journey This page includes details of who you should contact if you have a complaint about the passenger information given during your train journey. If you have a complaint about the information provided to you about your train journey, you should address it to the relevant train operating company . If you are dissatisfied with the train operator's response, you can contact Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch as appropriate. Following consultation with stakeholders, we made some changes to licence obligations to require train operating companies to provide good information for passengers, so that they can plan their journeys both in advance and on the day. These changes enable us to take enforcement action if required to resolve any serious issues. Further information 
file_312.txt|Browse reports / data Official Statistics This section includes all datasets that were previously published as part of the National Rail Trends Yearbook. These include quarterly statistics on rail usage, punctuality, reliability and complaints. Annual statistics include investment in the rail industry, changes in fares, CO2 emissions, safety and details on rolling stock in service. Official Statistics 
file_837.txt|Efficiency and finance assessment of Network Rail It is intended to help customers, funders and other interested parties gain a better understanding of Network Rail's performance compared with the CP4 financial settlement that we set out in our periodic review 2008 (PR08) determination of Network Rail's access charges. 
file_430.txt|
file_66.txt|Detailed guidance Key points A scheme offers value for money where the costs of membership provide good value in relation to the benefits of membership, when compared to other options available in the market. Encourage trustees of defined contribution (DC) schemes to consider value for money on an ongoing basis and to carry out a regular strategic review. Improve issues within your scope and raise any ancillary concerns with trustees or the relevant party. What is value for money? A scheme offers value for money where the costs and charges deducted from members provide good value in relation to the benefits and services they receive, when compared to other options available in the market. For instance, if a client’s scheme has higher costs and charges it should offer improved benefits and services. There is no common definition of what represents value for money. You need to understand what members will value most when assessing the overall value of the scheme and its individual components. Costs and charges Costs and charges have a significant impact on members’ pension savings, but calculating them can be complex. Make sure you and the trustees understand all the costs and charges that apply to the scheme or the investment funds used by the scheme. For more information, go to costs and charges . Back to top Setting up schemes that provide value for money If you’re involved with setting up new pension arrangements for your clients, you should ensure they will offer value for money to members. Go to setting up a scheme . Back to top Assessing value for money You may be asked by trustees to help them assess whether their existing scheme offers value for money to members. Ensure trustees keep value for money in mind on an ongoing basis by getting them to include it on the scheme’s risk register. Ensure trustees carry out a regular strategic review, eg every three years. They should take a proportionate and cost-effective approach by using ongoing information from service providers and publicly available information. They should document the results of assessments as evidence of activity in this area. Improving value for money Trustees should improve issues where they have responsibility. They may ask you to help with other areas. If there are concerns that are not within your scope to resolve, you or the trustees should raise them with the employer or the party that needs to resolve them. Trustees or the employer may decide that scheme members will be better served by: requiring improved service levels removing unused services changing provider. Trustees or the employer may ultimately decide that members are better off in a larger, more competitive scheme so need to wind up the existing scheme. For information about winding up schemes, go to closing a scheme . Back to top Communicating with members and employers Ensure that trustees clearly disclose to members all costs and charges that are deducted from their pension funds, throughout their membership. If the employer is considering whether to offer membership of an existing DC trust-based scheme to their staff, make sure that trustees provide clear and accurate information about costs and charges to the employer at the point of selection. 
file_218.txt|Heparin Sodium 100IU/ml I.V. flush solution PL 20417/0108 Kent Pharmaceuticals Ltd, distributor of the above product on behalf of the marketing authorisation Holder, Fannin (UK) Limited, has notified us of an error on the cartons of all batches distributed since 12 November 2014 as follows: The text on all faces of the carton states that the product is preservative free whereas the product actually contains three preservative excipients, including Benzyl Alcohol. The preservative excipients are not listed on the carton as they should be. The information contained in the SPC and the PIL for the product is correct. In order to avoid stock disruption, distribution of affected stock will continue until product with corrected cartons is available. Corrected stock is expected to be supplied to the market during February/March 2015. Please note: This product should not be used in premature babies and neonates because Benzyl Alcohol is contraindicated in these groups. Further Information For further enquiries, please telephone Kent Pharmaceuticals Ltd Medical Information on 0800 1693892 or 01233 506574 Recipients of this drug alert should bring it to the attention of relevant contacts by copy of this letter. Yours faithfully 
file_57.txt|Key points Ensure you have adequate arrangements in place to identify, monitor and manage your own conflicts of interest. If you help set up a conflicts process for trustees, make sure it includes a conflicts policy, register of interest, declarations and advance planning. Managing your own conflicts of interest You should have adequate arrangements in place for identifying, managing and disclosing your own conflicts of interest. You should make trustees aware of any conflicts of interest that might or do arise when you refer services or products for which you may gain some form of financial or non-financial benefits. Ensure that trustees understand when they’re being given independent advice and when they’re being offered a service or product from a party related to an adviser. Back to top Trustee conflicts of interest Actual or potential conflicts of interest may arise for trustees of DB schemes, eg when they’re involved in funding negotiations. There may be acute or pervasive conflicts associated with a trustee’s role, eg where they are also the finance director, in respect of which they may need advice. Not all conflicts are employer related – they can also arise for trustees who, for example, are scheme members or who hold trade union representative roles. You should help trustees to have processes in place to manage these types of issues. Back to top Setting up a conflicts process for trustees Trustees may ask you to help them set up a process to identify, monitor and manage any conflicts of interest, including potential conflicts, for those involved in running their DB scheme. This includes trustees, advisers and service providers. Such a process should include the following controls: agreeing a conflicts policy setting out the scheme's approach to dealing with conflicts – this should cover the process to identify and monitor conflicts and outline options for managing these maintaining a register of interests for recording all actual or potential conflicts a process for declarations when trustees, advisers and service providers are appointed, including ongoing declarations by advisers and service providers as soon as they arise and declarations at the start of trustee and sub-committee meetings advance planning to identify conflicts that may occur in the future and available options for managing these. 
file_654.txt|Our decisions Our decisions for 2014-2019 The decisions we've made will help the railway to grow in a sustainable way which minimises the costs to taxpayers, passengers and freight customers. They focus on what customers want and will require Network Rail to pay close attention to this in delivering its plan. Our main decisions are: delivering what matters to passengers – nine out of ten regional, Scottish, Southeast and London trains to run on time, with fewer serious delays and cancellations on mainline long distance services; reducing engineering works disruption to passenger trains by 8% and freight trains by 17%; running the network for £38bn from 2014-19; reduced day-to-day costs by £1.7bn less than Network Rail said it would cost; asking Network Rail to deliver efficiencies of nearly 20% compared to the end of CP4; investing over £12bn on improving the network and its facilities; investing over £21bn on day-to-day network running, including £17bn on maintenance and renewal of track and equipment (over £5bn on maintenance and over £12bn on renewals); and maintaining high safety standards, including investing £250m to improve worker safety and £109mn on improving safety at level crossings. Our approach will focus on getting the basics right. We'll look closely at the issues which impact on performance – notably network maintenance, track renewals and asset management. Network Rail has delivered many improvements to the railway, but we've challenged the company to go further. We have introduced more effective incentives to encourage the company to expand network's capacity so that yet more people can travel safely and efficiently by train. Building a greener railway Ensuring value for money The Westminster and Scottish governments want Network Rail to be more financially sustainable – reducing the cost of running the network without compromising levels of performance or safety. ORR has examined Network Rail's plans right down to route level, focusing on the biggest spending areas such as improvement projects and investment in replacing infrastructure such as track, buildings and bridges. We will take a much closer look at how Network Rail continues to devolve its business to route level, not just for efficiency purposes, but also to ensure greater accountability to taxpayers and its customers at a more local level. Network Rail is unlikely to make its efficiency target of £23.5% by the end of the present CP4 control period (31 March 2014), so has more work to do in the next. We have asked it to make total efficiencies of nearly 20% in CP5 (2014-19) compared to the end of CP4. Although Network Rail's own plans identified savings, our analysis shows further savings of £1.7bn can be made on running costs for the railways over the next five years. There may also be additional potential savings to be made on railway improvement projects once the full costs are available. We also need to make sure it spends the money appropriately – and that efficiencies are genuine rather than just deferred spend. We'll require Network Rail to be more open about how taxpayers' money is spent and what it achieves. This will give us a much clearer view of exactly how much goes to each rail route, what it is spent on, and what the outcomes are. People are entitled to know where their money is going and whether they are getting value for it. We'll also report on how all parts of the industry are performing and what we've done to address poor performance. If Network Rail can deliver the efficiencies we have asked for by the end of 2019, then it will have achieved the challenging targets set out by the government's independent consultant Sir Roy McNulty in his 2011 report . Investing for the future The governments expect up to 15% more rail traffic by 2019, much of it on commuter services. It wants Network Rail to increase capacity at major city stations, as well as electrifying more of the rail network in order to improve efficiency, increase capacity and reduce environmental impact. Network Rail will spend around £13bn to improve and enhance the network. We want train operators and passengers to have a bigger say in how that money is spent. Some projects are either committed or have been specified by government. This accounts for nearly £6bn, close to half the total amount. Examples include Crossrail, the electrification of the Welsh Valleys line and the Edinburgh-Glasgow Improvement Project. The remaining £7bn of the projects proposed by Network Rail, such as the East-West rail programme and the Highland Mainline in Scotland, are in the early stages of planning. Before we approve these projects, we're asking Network Rail to work up the details of their plans with the train operating companies – and to consult with passengers and other stakeholders. We'll then agree the costs once the benefits to the network and the increase in capacity are clear. That way we can protect the interests of customers and taxpayers – and ensure value for money. Aberdeen to Inverness improvements: improved train services and new stations at Dalcross and Kintore. Highland Main Line improvements: more frequent and faster journey times on the route including better freight connections Edinburgh to Glasgow improvements: faster journeys and longer trains providing greater capacity between Scotland's two major cities. Borders Railway: construction of a line connecting Edinburgh to Tweedbank for the first time since 1969. East Coast improvements: faster journeys and more train capacity from line improvements between the North East and London. The 'Northern Hub': track and capacity upgrades across Manchester city centre, Manchester Airport and across to Liverpool, as well as electrification of the North Trans-Pennine route between York and Manchester. North West electrification: between Manchester and Liverpool, Preston and the Pennines. Midland Main Line: electrification and capacity improvements including remodelling at Derby. More commuter capacity: longer platforms and track upgrades creating enough capacity for 140,000 extra daily rail commutes at peak times in cities such as London, Birmingham, Leeds and Manchester. Great Western Main Line: electrification from London to Oxford, Newbury and Bristol. Capacity works around Reading and Bristol. An electrified East West railway: providing new links for passengers and freight between Bletchley and Oxford which will also allow Oxford to Marylebone services to be introduced. Major station improvements: including completion of the schemes at Reading and Birmingham New Street and capacity works at Bristol Temple Meads, Derby and London Waterloo. An electric spine: an electrified route for passenger and freight services from the South Coast via Oxford and the Midlands to South Yorkshire. Thameslink: increasing capacity and improving journey times on the existing cross-London route between Bedford and Brighton. Crossrail: a major new cross-London route which will improve journey times and reduce congestion across the capital, linking Maidenhead and Heathrow in the west with Shenfield and Abbey Wood in the east. Welsh electrification: South Wales lines plus the mainline from Bristol to Cardiff and Swansea. Driving high performance We will require Network Rail to ensure that an average of 92.5% of passenger trains arrive on time by 2019. We will also require Network Rail to keep the proportion of cancellations and significantly late trains (CaSL) to an average of 2.2% of passenger services by the end of 2019. Punctuality targets are measured on a public performance measure basis (PPM). PPM is a measure of the percentage of trains arriving at their final destination within ten minutes of the advertised time for long distance trains, and within five minutes for London and South East trains. Cancellation and significant lateness (CaSL) is measured as a percentage of trains that are cancelled or arrive at their final destination over 30 minutes late. We decided to give Network Rail and the franchised train operators some flexibility to decide reliability targets, so long as the government's overall targets were met. To take account of this, we've slightly adjusted our original performance plans, based on what the train companies have told us they and their passengers want from Network Rail. First Great Western long distance trains will have a separate minimum PPM of 88%. East Coast and Virgin West Coast trains will also have a PPM floor of 88%, with correspondingly more stretching CaSL target of 2.9% for Virgin (down from 4.3%) and 4.2% for East Coast (down from 6%). That means only 3 in 100 Virgin trains arriving significantly late, and around 4 in 100 East Coast trains. For all other passenger train operators, we're setting a minimum target of nine out of ten trains (90% PPM) arriving on time by 2019. The focus will be on improving services in the worst performing areas. To make sure that the industry stays on track to achieve these targets by the end of CP5, we'll monitor performance closely and step in early to prevent things from going wrong. We will act immediately if any train operator's punctuality dips more than 2 percentage points below its PPM target. Although the Government has not set targets for freight, we have developed a new Freight Delivery measure in agreement with the industry, which looks at the percentage of commercial trains arriving within 15 minutes of the scheduled time. We'll require Network Rail's minimum performance to be 92.5% of freight trains arriving within 15 minutes. Managing the rail infrastructure The Westminster and Scottish governments have asked Network Rail to improve rapidly its understanding of all the assets it owns – including around 30,000 bridges, 2,500 stations and 20,000 miles of track. This is vital to managing the network efficiently, reducing delays and costs and improving safety. Up to date accurate data about the health of assets enables Network Rail to carry out proactive maintenance to prevent disruption and delays and ensure the network's safety. We're setting clear targets for Network Rail about the way it manages its assets because we want to see fast progress in this area. It is a much more specific approach than before, but the governments, passengers and train operators expect us to give close attention to this issue as it is fundamental to the network's performance. In order to speed up the improvements, we're proposing a number of targets at the national level covering areas such as: the company's overall capability in asset management (from track and signaling to structures like bridges and tunnels); the quality of the data it gathers; the success of its internal asset management programmes; and the condition, performance and failure of each asset type. This will help Network Rail to increase renewals activity, improve planning activity to predict and reduce delays, and improve drainage and other schemes to make the network less prone to disruption from severe weather. Making the railway safe for all Network Rail is legally required to do everything reasonably practical to continue to improve safety on the railways. We expect the company to take a proportionate, risk-based approach that does not put the public or workers in harm's way. Since 2002, there have been considerable improvements in safety. The UK now has one of the safest railway networks in Europe for passengers and workers, but there is more to be done and we can't be complacent. We will not allow the efficiency drive to compromise safety standards in any way – and have made this clear to Network Rail. We've provided additional funding for safety-critical maintenance and renewals work to ensure a safer and more resilient network. We've provided around £109m for improving safety at level crossings (these account for half of the potentially catastrophic risks on the current network). This includes closing around 500 level crossings by the end of CP5. We've provided £250m to help improve track worker safety. We will require more clarity from Network Rail on how progress on safety will be measured and tracked. For example, how it will cut train accident risk by 50% – and what it is doing to improve the occupational health and the safety of rail industry employees. We'll continue to monitor Network Rail's safety performance using a wide range of indicators and through our rail safety management maturity model, called RM3. Building a greener railway The Westminster and Scottish governments want the railway to become more environmentally sustainable and have asked Network Rail to measure and reduce the amount of carbon embedded in new infrastructure and to publish regular, accurate data on carbon emissions and energy efficiency for both traction (train-related) and off-track operations such as offices and stations. To ensure Network Rail sets stretching carbon reduction targets – and achieves them – ORR will subject each aspect of the company's programme to independent review. We'll check that Network Rail's improvement works, including electrification projects, maximise reductions in the amount of carbon embedded in the rail infrastructure. We'll oversee implementation of Network Rail's delivery plan to ensure that it reports regularly on both train-related and off-track carbon emissions and energy efficiency. We'll review Network Rail's progress on climate change adaptation and the company's wider environmental impacts on a project by project basis.> We'll check how well Network Rail is doing at making the network more resilient to climate change. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_817.txt|Licence exemptions by company L - S This section lists railway licence exemptions for companies A – D. All copies of licence exemptions, granted by us are available in our public register . Abbreviations for terms used describing licence exemptions listed in this section: LMD: a light maintenance depot where services such as refuelling and cleaning trains takes place, and other frequent light maintenance work. Heritage: an operation primarily used for tourist, educational or recreational purposes of non-mainline passenger services and assets, usually on a preserved railway line. Network: a railway line or combination of lines and installations. Licence exempt networks are usually functionally separate from the national network. Usually they will also be operated within a fenced or controlled access territory. This includes freight sidings or goods terminals. Contractor: a rail maintenance company which undertakes track maintenance and repair, usually on behalf of Network Rail. Maintenance activities take place within engineering possessions using specialist or Rail Mounted Maintenance Vehicles (RMMVs). Non-passenger trains: freight or maintenance trains. In the context of exemptions, this would include short distance, non-mainline shunting operations in specific areas. All licence exemptions are published by, exemption title, description of exemption and the date it came into force. 
file_186.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) In the public interest, ministers need the advice they receive on matters relating to the regulation of medicines and medical devices to be impartial. They also need to be able to seek such advice from a wide range of highly skilled professionals who are senior and well regarded in their respective fields and from a range of appointed lay and patient representatives. A number of independent advisory committees have been established to provide such an advice. These committees can also establish working group to address specific problems. Members of these committees may receive a fee and claim some expenses. This section sets out details about the terms of references of these various committees, their members and the work they undertake. Latest committee documents 
file_933.txt|ORR publishes latest data on Network Rail’s performance for April-October 2014 ORR publishes latest data on Network Rail’s performance for April-October 2014 20 November 2014 The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) today published the latest Network Rail performance data and analysis covering April-October 2014. The report highlights that train service performance is generally below expectations. The regulator's evidence also suggests that the quality of data that Network Rail relies upon to plan and manage works on Britain's railways is currently in places unreliable, and that this may be hindering its efforts to meet its funded targets. The Network Rail Monitor covers its performance in the first seven months of the new funding period that began in April 2014 in areas such as punctuality, asset management, enhancement projects delivery, and finance and efficiency. The report shows: Network Rail has made good progress in reducing safety risk at level crossings, mainly through a programme of closures but also through more effective risk assessment and the implementation of new technology and better systems. National train punctuality is currently 89.1%, 0.7 percentage points short of the level expected at this point. Network Rail is making progress against its own two-year performance recovery plan but this is not having the desired effect on punctuality. ORR has asked for the plan to be adjusted appropriately in light of this underperformance. The company has reported delivering less work than it planned to do, in both maintaining and renewing the network. There is a lack of reliable data on bridges, structures and earthworks as well as volumes of work being delivered. This is having an adverse impact on Network Rail's ability to work effectively. Network Rail has not made the expected progress in the early stages of certain enhancement projects – such as the strategic freight network at Ipswich Yard; and phase 2 of Barry to Cardiff Queen Street corridor – raising questions regarding its ability to deliver the ambitious enhancements programme. ORR has asked Network Rail to produce an improvement plan to demonstrate how it will make up for the delays. Network Rail has spent £40m more (year to date) than its own budget assumptions and forecasts an overspend of £112m for 2014-15. This is largely due to spend on two significant new initiatives, the Tidy Railway and Business Critical Rules Programme, which were not included in its 2014-15 budget. ORR chief executive Richard Price said: At ORR we have changed our approach to regulating train punctuality and the performance of the network – focusing on the indicators that will tell us more about Network Rail's likely performance trajectory. This enables us to predict whether Network Rail's work in the coming months will put matters right for passengers. This is vital as too many people are facing too many delays. It is the biggest source of dissatisfaction with the railways, and the industry needs to tackle the problem. ORR is also concerned about the reliability of some of the information Network Rail depends upon to take decisions about how to achieve and sustain the high levels of punctuality and financial performance. Network Rail has made progress in some of these areas, but not in all of them. Without up-to-date knowledge, Network Rail will not have sufficient understanding of how and why its assets fail and its maintenance approach will remain reactive – leading to inefficiencies and hindering its efforts to improve punctuality. The new management at the company has made it clear that it shares our concerns and has committed to address these issues." Notes to editors ORR is the independent safety and economic regulator for Great Britain's railways. Follow ORR on Twitter @railregulation . Infographic explaining what Network Rail needs to deliver by 2019: http://www.orr.gov.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0019/15247/orr-cp5-output-framework.pdf The Network Rail Monitor for England and Wales can be downloaded here: http://www.orr.gov.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0011/15230/network-rail-monitor-2014-15-q1.pdf For the Scotland Network Rail monitor visit: http://www.orr.gov.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0012/15231/network-rail-monitor-scotland-2014-15-q1.pdf Network Rail entered 2014-15 at much lower levels of performance than anticipated in ORR's CP5 Final Determination: http://goo.gl/8sGthP . Network Rail has produced a CP5 Performance Plan which details the activities it will deliver to ensure that performance returns to the regulated target levels by 31 March 2016. ORR is monitoring the company's delivery of this plan and assessing whether it is doing everything reasonably practicable in the circumstances to recover performance. ORR expects Network Rail to underperform the regulatory financial performance measure by around £300m in 2014-15. This takes into account the variances between: actual performance and its own budget (£112m adverse for the full year), the financial assumptions in our PR13 determination for CP5 and Network Rail's own budget (£100m adverse for the full year) and also Network Rail's estimate of the financial effect of the forecast under-delivery of the regulatory outputs for train performance (£93m for the full year). 
file_992.txt|Ofqual Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 3.24The DfE is consulting on the content for GCSEs in drama. 16 Proposed assessment arrangements 3.25In current GCSEs in drama 60 to 100 per cent of the marks are allocated to non-exam assessments. The actual forms and balance of assessment types vary between exam boards. 3.26We have considered the draft content, which sets out the knowledge and understanding required for the subject and the performance and skill requirements for the subject. It is more specific and detailed than before, and in particular includes a requirement to study a greater range of texts. We believe that new content can be most validly assessed using a combination of exam and non-exam assessments. 3.27Non-exam assessments will allow for the direct assessment of students’ ability to apply their theatrical skills to create and perform drama. We propose that the percentage of marks allocated to non-exam assessments should be 60 per cent, reflecting the balance between the practical and theoretical elements in the subject content. This is in line with some current specifications. Tiering 3.28Currently GCSEs in drama are not tiered. We propose that the new GCSEs in drama should not be tiered either. Proposed assessment objectives 3.29The proposed assessment objectives are clearer than the current ones for the subject. We propose the following assessment objectives and weightings: Assessment objectives 
file_233.txt|All herbal safety warnings and alerts 16 April 2013 The MHRA has recently become aware that an  unlicensed herbal product, Zheng tian wan, containing Aconite, a prescription only medicine, is being marketed and prescribed by Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) practitioners for the treatment migraine. Aconite (also known as monkshood) and herbal products containing this ingredient can cause serious and potentially fatal adverse reactions if consumed. Zheng tian wan is manufactured by the Shenzhen 999 Chinese Medicine Investment & Development Co., Ltd. The product is said to include prepared Aconite. In TCM, Aconitum rootstocks are processed by soaking or boiling them in water in order to hydrolyse the aconite alkaloids into their less toxic, aconine derivatives. Toxicity can, however, result when such processes are not controlled or the final product is not quality checked appropriately. Cases of cardio toxicity resulting from the ingestion of badly prepared Aconitum species used in TCM have been reported from Hong Kong. Possible side effects Since 1999, the MHRA has received 3 reports of adverse reactions suspected to be associated with products containing aconite. Two of the cases involved TCM products containing multiple ingredients. The first patient experienced palpitations, aches and pains with shortness of breath and generally felt unwell but recovered after stopping the TCM product. The second patient developed kidney problems and required dialysis and the third patient actually prepared a tincture from the herbs and developed dizziness, nausea the feeling of pins and needles in their face, lips, arms and legs. They were admitted to hospital but recovered after stopping the aconite product. Reporting side effects If you have taken this product and think you may be experiencing side-effects, please contact your doctor for advice. Take this information with you to help your doctor understand the situation. Please also help us gather more information on this issue by submitting a Yellow Card report . Page last modified: 		 		17 April 2013 
file_27.txt|Key points Staff who have been automatically enrolled or who have opted in have the right to opt out. The decision to opt out must be taken freely by your staff member. Staff cannot opt out until after they’ve been automatically enrolled. The opt-out period is one month from when active membership is created, or they receive your letter with the enrolment information, whichever is latest. Staff opt out by getting an opt-out notice from the pension scheme which they then complete and give to you. You must issue a full refund of any contributions the staff member has made within a month of receiving a valid notice. The opt-out period Once staff have been enrolled into the pension scheme, they have one calendar month during which they can opt out and get a full refund of any contributions. This is known as the ‘opt-out period’. It starts from the whichever date is the later of: the date active membership was achieved, or the date they received your letter with the enrolment information. Staff can’t opt out before the opt-out period starts or after it ends. If they decide to leave the scheme outside this period, they will instead be ‘ceasing active membership’. Whether they get a refund of contributions will depend on the pension scheme rules. Back to top When someone opts out Staff opt out by giving you an ‘opt-out notice’. The opt-out notice is provided by the pension scheme. This is to avoid any employer involvement in the decision to opt out, which could lead to a breach of the law. With some pension schemes, you can arrange for the staff member to be able to complete the opt-out notice online. If you get an opt-out notice, check it’s valid. That means it contains all of the information listed in statutory information to be included in the opt-out notice, below. If any of the information listed is missing, you must tell the staff member who will have to resubmit the notice. The opt-out period is extended to six weeks if you get an invalid notice, to allow the staff member enough time to correct it. When you set up your pension scheme, you will have agreed with them how they handle opt outs. You must do whatever they need you to do to process the opt-out request. When a staff member opts out, you must stop payroll from deducting any further contributions straight away. Back to top Refunds You must give the staff member a full refund of any contributions they’ve made. Your payroll will have a record of how much this is. You’ll need to refund any contributions they’ve made within a month of them opting out. Normally, you should issue the refund in the next payroll after you get the opt-out notice. The pension scheme will refund to you any contributions it’s received for that staff member. Don’t wait for the scheme to refund you before you refund your staff member as this could mean you miss the one-month deadline. 
file_493.txt|Freight customers Freight customers Freight customers are those with a direct interest in rail freight, including purchasers of services and their representative bodies, but not the operators of the trains. ORR's ambitions for the freight sector are grounded in our strategic objectives: 'support a better service for customers' – use our powers to hold the industry to account for performance and standards of service across the railway network, 'secure value for money from the railway, for users and funders' – strengthen incentives for the increased use of railway capacity, and more cost-effective investment in the network, 'promote an increasingly dynamic and commercially sustainable sector' – support sustainable economic growth by promoting innovation and efficient long-term investment across the rail industry through the appropriate development of effective markets and regulatory intervention, Periodic review 2018 (PR18) structure of charges review We published a letter on 5 December 2014 that outlined our proposed approach to our review of charges – which is a key part of our PR18 preparations. This letter pdf icon PDF, 129 Kb describes our proposed approach to engaging with, and seeking views from, the industry as the review develops. Freight customer track access contracts Freight customer track access contracts are also known as 3rd party freight access contracts. These are model track access contracts between Network Rail and freight customers which are approved by ORR. They enable freight customers to hold their own track access rights, and provide flexibility for freight customers who wish to choose and easily change a freight operating company to haul their traffic. On 6 November 2014 ORR presented at an event hosted by Network Rail and the Rail Freight Group. This seminar pdf icon PDF, 200 Kb was an open forum to discuss how freight customers can hold track access rights and the benefits of such an approach. Freight customer event We held our Freight Customer Event in October 2014, which was attended by a broad range of freight customers. Further information 
file_52.txt|Recovery plans Key points Read Code of practice 3: Funding defined benefits if you advise trustees on funding, covenant and investment related matters. Trustees should understand, monitor and manage their risks in an integrated way and you should be mindful of this when providing advice. Help trustees adopt a proportionate approach. Assessing the strength of the covenant now and in the future should be a key aspect of trustees’ approach. Approach to funding Trustees should follow a number of key funding principles as set out in Code of practice 3: Funding defined benefits. These include working closely and openly with the employer and seeking an appropriate funding outcome that reflects a reasonable balance between the need to pay promised benefits and minimising any adverse impact on an employer’s plans for sustainable growth (and therefore its long-term ability to support the scheme). Risk taking can be acceptable but it’s vital that trustees and the employer understand the risks being taken. Due to the extent to which covenant, investment and funding decisions interact with one another, trustees should adopt a proportionate and integrated approach to assessing, monitoring and addressing risks across these three areas. As an adviser you should: make sure your advice to trustees and employers can be easily understood be mindful of the fact that trustees will have to join up the advice they receive across covenant, investment and funding-related matters in order to understand overall risk – so be prepared to work transparently and collaboratively with other advisers help trustees adopt a proportionate approach under which the resources committed are in line with the benefits they’re likely to bring. For more information go to: 
file_649.txt|How we regulate Network Rail How we regulate Network Rail We hold network rail to account for delivering what it promised – at the amount it agreed to do it for – and we require it to meet its obligation to provide a safe, high-performing, and efficient railway. We do this by enforcing compliance with its licences and by conducting five-yearly reviews that set its funding and what it must achieve within the relevant control period. Accountability of Network Rail We hold Network Rail to account for management of the network by enforcing compliance with its licences. Read more about Network Rail's accountability Periodic review 2013 (PR13) At the heart of the review is our assessment of what Network Rail must achieve from 2014 to 2019, the money it needs to do so, and the incentives needed to encourage delivery and outperformance. In this section: 
file_457.txt|Corporate strategy Corporate strategy Our corporate strategy sets out our approach to the regulation of the rail industry, working together with infrastructure managers, operators, suppliers and funders to: meet the changing needs and expectations of passengers and freight customers; maximise value for both users of railway services and taxpayers; and play a full part in economic growth and help meet the environmental challenges ahead. 
file_954.txt|Kayleigh’s International Nuclear Mission 12 February, 2015 A young nuclear inspector will play a key role in a global study into the decommissioning of nuclear facilities damaged as a result of neglect, accidents or conflicts. Kayleigh Harden, from Warrington, works for the Office for Nuclear Regulation (ONR). ONR independently regulates nuclear safety and security across the UK. Kayleigh, 28, is one of Britain’s youngest nuclear inspectors. Her regular work revolves around inspecting Sellafield, the nuclear reprocessing plant in Cumbria. She will now also lend her expertise to an international working group assessing lessons learned from the decommissioning and remediation of damaged nuclear facilities. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) three-year project will evaluate case studies such as the accident at Chernobyl in Ukraine and Iraq’s Al Tuwaitha Nuclear Research Centre which was heavily damaged in the Gulf War. It will also focus on legacy facilities such as those at the UK’s Sellafield site. Kayleigh travelled to Vienna recently to meet with IAEA colleagues from around the world as they embark on the DAROD project (Decommissioning and Remediation of Damaged Nuclear Facilities). She was appointed vice-chair of the DAROD regulatory working group and will contribute to a final report which will highlight lessons learnt and disseminate practical guidance to operators and regulators of nuclear facilities around the world. Kayleigh said: “It’s a fantastic opportunity for me and ONR to be involved in such a significant project. It is a new challenge and means I can play a key role in positively influencing the final report. “ONR is seen as an international leader in nuclear regulation. While in Vienna we presented on our regulatory strategy for Sellafield and received very positive feedback. By being part of this IAEA project we will be able to share our work and good practice internationally.” Kayleigh graduated with a Masters Degree in physics from The University of Manchester in 2009, Her first role was on the nuclear graduate programme at BAE Systems in Barrow-in-Furness. From there she joined RSD, now the Regulatory Support Directorate of AMEC Foster Wheeler, where she worked to support the Defence Nuclear Safety Regulatory in a variety of roles before joining ONR in September. Kayleigh participated in the Nuclear Institute’s Technical Tour of Ukraine in 2013 where she visited the damaged nuclear reactor at Chernobyl. 
file_505.txt|ORR Open Data ORR Open Data We publish data and information about ORR and the railway industry as part of the government's commitment to transparency, and to improve railway performance. At ORR, we publish information from a variety of sources – we look to receive assurance for its accuracy and completeness. 
file_431.txt|
file_269.txt|The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this The inspection process This section outlines the Good Pharmacovigilance Practice inspection process and gives details of the types of inspections and how they are carried out. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Risk-based inspections This section provides information about risk-based inspections, why the MHRA is now using this method of inspection and how they work. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Stakeholder Engagement Meeting This section provides information on the Stakeholder Engagement Meeting, which is coordinated by the MHRA Pharmacovigilance Inspectorate. Go to the section on the Stakeholder Engagement Meeting Pharmacovigilance inspection metrics The pharmacovigilance metrics provide information on the number and type of marketing authorisation holders (MAHs) inspected, the areas associated with common inspection findings, as well as the number of critical, major and other findings. 
file_208.txt|What’s new 11 December 2014 Today the Department for Transport has issued a press release calling on pharmacies to support a new year campaign to help customers understand the changes to drug driving legislation coming into force in March 2015. The new offence has been introduced by the government to tackle the irresponsible few who continue to abuse drugs and drive by giving the police new powers to tackle the issue. The government has consulted widely with medical and pharmacy experts and today’s announcement is about making sure people who take prescription or over the counter medicines as advised are not affected by the law. Pharmacies are being asked to support the campaign from February 2015 by: Briefing pharmacy teams, using the published healthcare guidance , so that they understand the implications of the new offence for patients. Displaying campaign materials online and via social media Displaying campaign materials in-store / pharmacies, e.g. reminder stickers on prescription bags, shelf displays and posters A partner pack has been developed to provide further background to the new offence and campaign plans. To register your interest and find out more about how your pharmacy can support the campaign contact DfTPressReleases@dft.gsi.gov.uk . Campaign materials will be available for Drs and pharmacies to order in January 2015. Page last modified: 		 		11 December 2014 
file_751.txt|Access for passenger operators Access for passenger operators The documents contained below provide guidance and the application form for track access by passenger operators whether franchised or Open Access. Industry standard Model Contracts are included as well as details of General Approvals which cover situations where you may enter or amend contracts without needing to apply to us for specific approval. Related documents and links are provided to help with questions that may arise when drafting applications. Potential new entrants to the market should familiarise themselves with our Starting Mainline Rail Operations pdf icon PDF, 455 Kb document. We advise all applicants to use our model contracts, provided below. For international passenger operators wishing to apply for access to operate cross-border services, we have produced guidance on the assessment of new international passenger services pdf icon PDF, 345 Kb . If you have any questions, please contact us . Application form Applicants should use a Form P application form (for passenger operators, including charter and open access operators) for all applications under sections 17-22A. The form is available below in Word and PDF format: PDF version pdf icon PDF, 79 Kb Model contracts Applicants are advised to begin with the passenger model contract. Further guidance on this can be found in our C&Ps document above. Passenger model contract: Model clause Relevant Schedule 8 Modifications provision doc icon DOC, 42 Kb Passenger general approvals We have powers under sections 18 and 22 of the Act to grant general approvals. The current passenger general approvals are listed below: The Passenger Access (Short Term Timetable and Miscellaneous Changes) General Approval 2009 pdf icon PDF, 62 Kb permits Network Rail and a train operator to make amendments to their track access agreement, subject to certain conditions  without our specific approval. The amendments permitted are described in the general approval, which includes an explanatory note. Any amendments beyond those permitted will require our specific approval under section 22 or directions under section 22A of the Act; Passenger Access (Model Charter Track Access Contract) General Approval 2009 pdf icon PDF, 31 Kb permits Network Rail and charter train operators to enter into track access contracts based on the charter model contract doc icon DOC, 806 Kb for the provision of passenger charter services and to make certain specified amendments to such contracts. Supplemental Agreement (Interim Treatment of the 2013 Periodic Review) General Approval 2013 pdf icon PDF, 259 Kb permits Network Rail and a train operator to make amendments to their track access agreement to give effect to ORR's proposed  contingency arrangement in the event of a delay to the statutory implementation of PR13. For previous policy decisions and workstreams, please see the policy and document archive . For previous access application decisions, please see our decisions library or, for decisions in the last six months, the relevant decisions page. Last updated - 14 October 2014 
file_391.txt|GOV.UK Getting started Good practice in health and safety is good for your business – and it's the law. HSE is here to help – our online advice and tools can help save you time and effort getting started. If you think health and safety has to be complicated -it doesn't. Health and safety made simple will make it easier for you to comply with the law and manage health and safety in your business. The health and safety toolbox - How to control risks at work builds on the basics laid out in Health and safety made simple and provides the next level of advice to help businesses identify, assess and control common risks in the workplace. We've organised the HSE website by industry and topic to help you find what's relevant to you follow the links or use our search tool on our homepage. Resources 
file_601.txt|Occupational health recent formal enforcement Occupational health recent formal enforcement As part of ORR's strategy to raise awareness on occupational health under our health programme, we will publicise recent cases where formal enforcement action has been taken to secure legal compliance. We will continue to take enforcement action in a targeted and proportionate way where health risks are not being properly controlled, in line with health and safety legislation and our enforcement policy . ORR enforcement notices on health risks A prohibition notice and two improvement notices were served on Specialist Compliant Coatings Ltd for: their failure, so far as reasonably practicable, to provide effective measures to prevent or adequately control exposure to isocyanates released during paint spraying in the area of Morden depot being used for train refurbishment; and that employees and others were exposed to risks of respiratory sensitisation from isocyanates because: of failure to ensure that exposure to respirable components within isocyanate-containing paints, is either prevented, or where this is not reasonably practicable, adequately controlled no information from commissioning of your paint spraying enclosures, or from thorough examination and tests of those enclosures to reliably demonstrate that these enclosures provide effective containment of isocyanate-containing paints; and existing enclosures have not been maintained in an efficient state, in efficient working order and in good repair. Good cooperation from Safety Specialist Coatings Ltd resulted in full compliance with the notices in the agreed timescales and a high standard of protection being achieved. Two improvement notices were also issued to Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd for the failure to adequately manage asbestos–containing materials at Euston Station when it became clear that a full asbestos survey had not been undertaken there was no asbestos management plan in place. Work to rectify this is under way at all Network Rail managed stations. They were also served with a prohibition notice requiring them to prevent the lifting and carrying of troughing known as C143 by manual handling at any of their sites to stop the risks of musculoskeletal disorder. An improvement notice was issued to Network Rail Infrastructure Ltd for there not being adequate washing facilities in the vicinity of the portable toilet at the Carlisle Kingmoor LDC. In the past few years, we have issued enforcement notices on health in a number of areas. They include failure to control risks from the manual handling of heavy materials, risks of working with paint containing an isocyanate, failure to find out whether asbestos was present in premises and that those liable to be exposed to asbestos had not been given sufficient information, instruction and training on asbestos . Further notices were also issued for insufficient assessment of the risks of carrying out the manual cleaning of train under frames in March 2010 and risks created by cutting rails in December 2011. Further information can be found on the improvement and prohibition notices pages on this website. Last updated - 21 July 2014 
file_261.txt|Stay safe using herbal remedies Did you know…? 40% people think herbal medicines are safe because they are natural. Ipsos MORI / MHRA, 2008 This section of the site is aimed at anyone wishing to place herbal medicines on the UK market and outlines the different regulatory requirements. The new European Traditional Herbal Medicinal Products Directive (THMPD) 2004/24/EC came into effect on 30 April 2011. The Directive establishes a regulatory approval process for herbal medicines in the European Union (EU). It requires each EU Member State to set up a traditional herbal registration scheme for manufactured traditional herbal medicines that are suitable for use without medical supervision. Companies are no longer able to sell manufactured unlicensed herbal medicines unless they have an appropriate product licence, either: a full marketing authorisation (MA) based on the safety, quality and efficacy of the product, as with any regular medicine, or a traditional herbal registration (THR) based on the safety, quality and evidence of traditional use of the product. Traditional Herbal Medicines Registration Scheme The Traditional Herbal Medicines Registration Scheme, introduced on 30 October 2005, helps protect public health by requiring specific standards of safety and quality for traditional herbal medicines. This scheme is required by the European Directive on Traditional Herbal Medicinal Products (2004/24/EC). The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Prohibited or restricted herbal ingredients This section provides a consolidated list of herbal ingredients which are subject to restrictions. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Is your herbal product a medicine? Not all herbal products are medicines; many can be legally sold as food or cosmetics for example. It is therefore important that you begin by establishing whether your product is classified as a medicine. This section will help you determine whether your product is medicinal and where to go for advice. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Marketing authorisations for herbal medicines To get a marketing authorisation a product needs to meet standards of safety, quality and efficacy (or effectiveness). When seeking a licence for herbal medicines, many companies have had difficulty meeting conventional requirements to prove efficacy. This was one factor that led to the introduction of the Traditional Herbal Registration Scheme and many products are likely to follow that regulatory route. However, it will continue to be possible to obtain a marketing authorisation for herbal medicines where the required levels of efficacy as well as safety and quality can be demonstrated. Unlicensed herbal medicines supplied by a practitioner following a one-to-one consultation Information for practitioners who prepare herbal medicines following a one-to-one consultation. Advice for consumers on using herbal medicines safely Information and advice about using herbal medicines can be found in our herbal medicines consumer information section 
file_1001.txt|Home > Information management > Re-using public sector information > Copyright > Crown copyright Crown copyright Crown copyright covers material created by civil servants, ministers and government departments and agencies. This includes legislation, government codes of practice, Ordnance Survey mapping, government reports, official press releases, government forms and many public records. Crown copyright is legally defined under section 163 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 as works made by officers or servants of the Crown in the course of their duties. Copyright can also come into Crown ownership by means of assignment or transfer of the copyright from the legal owner of the copyright to the Crown. Our role in managing Crown copyright The Controller of Her Majesty’s Stationery Office (HMSO) at The National Archives manages Crown copyright and Crown database rights on behalf of Her Majesty the Queen: licensing a wide range of Crown copyright and Crown database right information through the Open Government Licence and the UK Government Licensing Framework granting delegations of authority to government departments and agencies to enable them to license the information that they create or hold regulating any government departments and agencies which have authority from us to license the information they create, through our Information Fair Trader Scheme (IFTS) Further information Many of the public records held at The National Archives are subject to Crown copyright. You may quote or transcribe from Crown copyright documents freely and without formal permission. Where you are using documents held by The National Archives you must give the document reference number and acknowledge The National Archives as custodian of the document. If you wish to publish an image of a document held at The National Archives (including readers’ own photographs of records) contact the image library for further advice. More detailed guidance on the copyright and use of records held at The National Archives can be found in Using Materials from The National Archives (PDF, 0.16 MB). You can find useful links on our Copyright guidance page . Related documents 
file_564.txt|Heritage railways, tramways, LUL and TfL Heritage railways, tramways, LUL and TfL An overview of heritage railways, tramways, London Underground Limited and other Transport for London companies' effectiveness at managing occupational health risks. Heritage railways Overview: we formally agreed that the Heritage Railway Association (HRA) would take over managing and publishing the sector's core safety guidance that is currently covered by our RSP5 guidance on minor railways document. This is a key milestone for the heritage sector. We continue to work closely with the HRA to develop such guidance. This year HRA added seven useful guidance notes . Evidence: our 2013-14 inspections identified improvements above what we found in recent years in the quality of heritage railway operators' safety management systems (SMS), but improvements must maintain momentum. We served two improvement notices and one prohibition notice on operators to bring aspects of their SMS up to an appropriate standard. Tramways Overview: safety performance on Britain's tramways was above our expectations. Overall passenger numbers continued to grow. There were 94.4 million passenger journeys on Britain's trams in 2013-14, up 2.2% on 2013-14 . Evidence: Manchester, Nottingham and the West Midlands tram systems have grown and many extensions are now complete and in operation. Our inspectors have monitored the development and bringing those lines into operation, including liaising with operators and promoters to close-out specific safety issues as they arise. Edinburgh tram began operation on 31 May 2014. We kept oversight of the project under the Railways and Other Guided Transport System safety verification process. We continue to monitor the sector's development of a consolidated incident recording database which should improve the level and consistency of cross-industry data collection. The small dataset involved makes any definitive analysis difficult. London Underground Limited and other Transport for London companies Overview: there were no railway operational-caused fatalities on Transport for London's (TfL) managed infrastructure in 2013-14. TfL continues to maintain a high-level of safety for its passengers and workforce as passenger numbers and services grow. Station crowd congestion remains a challenge for London Underground due to the unprecedented amount of construction work involved in the Tube's modernisation. Well-practiced station monitoring procedures are used to ensure this risk is managed properly. Evidence: there were 1.72 billion passenger journeys on TfL systems in 2013, with London Underground responsible for 1.27 billion of those. Our interventions in 2013-14 confirmed that London Underground has the necessary health and safety procedures in place to manage its operational risks. However, we found variations, some of which could be improved on, in the way procedures are applied across its network. Using the evidence collected from our intervention and inspections over 2011-14 and our RM3 audit, we assessed London Underground as having a between 'standardised' (level 2) and 'managed' (level 3) pdf icon PDF, 413 Kb level of health and safety performance. This is very much a 'middle of the road' rating, which shows that London Underground has scope to improve. London Underground, along with other TfL companies, has embraced the use of the RM3 model to help develop its own SMS improvement programme. We continue to work with London Underground to support it in its RM3 assessment. Our inspections identified some good practices and encouraging signs of forward, proactive risk control, such as the use of a Brokk-breaker in tunnels removes exposure to vibratory tools. However, there were weaknesses at some train depots in controlling the risk from spraying of isocyanate paint (a known cause of asthma) resulting in two enforcement notices on a contractor. Prompt subsequent action by London Underground rectified this. Last updated - 1 August 2014 
file_22.txt|Closing a scheme Implementing automatic enrolment Find out what you need to do to automatically enrol your staff into a good quality pension scheme. Check your progress If you're nearing your staging date, the resources below summarise the preparations you need to have in place. Postponement You can choose to postpone automatic enrolment for up to three months for some or all of your staff. You must write to your staff to tell them you’re postponing automatic enrolment for them. One of the times you can postpone is from your staging date. 
file_258.txt|Error: Page cannot be displayed Unfortunately the page you are looking for has not been found on our website. Please use the back button on your browser and try again or use our: Alternatively, you may be able to find an archived version of this page in the National Archives (external link) If you need any assistance please contact our Web Team by emailing webupdates@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Please help us improve our website by reporting technical problems using our online Technical feedback form 
file_429.txt|
file_640.txt|Station safety Station safety Information and advice for passengers on station safety issues such as platform gaps and stepping distances. Over the years different types of rolling stock have been introduced and platforms constructed to different heights. This has meant that the stepping distance between platform edge and train coaches can vary at some stations around the network. If the gap is too big it can be a risk to passengers getting on and off trains. This is particularly the case for disabled and elderly passengers and people with small children and push chairs. Can the problem be solved? Opportunities should be taken, for example, where other station improvement work is being done, to improve all platforms not conforming to current accepted good practice. The Department of Transport has produced guidance on Accessible train and station design for disabled people . Network Rail has an ongoing programme identifying problem locations and developing an action plan. This is a risk based programme aimed at carrying out improvement works at the highest priority locations first. We accept that in many cases, particularly at platforms not used very much, upgrading may take time. There needs to be priority about the risk, the extent of the defects and the number of passengers exposed to the risk. It should be noted that it may be impossible to eliminate some platform gaps because they are located on track curves. Are there laws protecting passengers? Under current health and safety law, railway operators should reduce the risk from gaps as low as is reasonably practicable. For existing station platforms, a judgement has to be made as to whether it would be reasonably practicable to reduce the gaps and whether the cost of taking action would be disproportionate to the level of risk. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_95.txt|corporate activity relevant to the scheme retirement, including members’ options at retirement. You should record risks you identify in a risk register. Evaluating risks You must develop a process for evaluating risks. This should consider the impact and likelihood of a risk occurring. Your evaluation process should enable you to direct resources to priority areas. Start with risks that have a high impact and a high likelihood of occurring. Assess which risks your scheme can absorb without the need to take further action, and which risks you need to manage. Managing risks You must have adequate internal controls that are suitably designed and implemented. They need to enable you to take appropriate action. You should consider certain issues including: how the control is performed and the skills of the person performing the control the level of reliance on information technology solutions whether the control will stop something happening or detect something that has already happened the frequency and timeliness of a control process the process for reporting errors or control failures. Monitoring risk management controls You must continually review exposure to new and emerging risks. This includes significant changes in or affecting the scheme. You should review your risk register at least annually and evaluate risk assessment arrangements, procedures and systems for significant changes. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit A tutorial in the ‘Running a scheme’ module called 'Risk management and internal controls' covers how to manage risks by setting up internal controls. You must log in or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
file_688.txt|Monitoring performance Monitoring Network Rail performance Monitoring Network Rail's performance is a key role for us. We monitor Network Rail's performance on a continuous basis - against targets in the most recent access charges review, against obligations in its network licence and against forecasts in its own business plan. We monitor through analysis of regular reports from Network Rail. Network Rail Monitor The Monitor sets out how we think Network Rail is doing in delivering its obligations to its customers and funders, and highlights any areas of concern. Read more about the Network Rail Monitor Efficiency and finance assessment This document provides our efficiency and financial assessment of Network Rail for 2012-13, the fourth year of control period 4 (CP4). Read more about efficiency and finance assessment Underspend and efficiency It is important for the viability and development of the railway that Network Rail delivers its outputs at the least possible cost in order to minimise the financial burden on both its customers and funders. 
file_255.txt|This section outlines the legislation that governs clinical trials. Implementation of the Clinical Trials Directive in the UK Information about legislation involved in conducting a clinical trial in the UK. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Legislation 
file_609.txt|Further help and guidance Further help and guidance This page provides sources of further guidance on managing work related stress, including the business case for better stress management. Please note it is our policy to obtain permission to link to other websites. We are not responsible for the content or reliability of the linked websites. Listing should not be taken as endorsement of any kind. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all of the time and we have no control over the availability of linked pages. 
file_972.txt|Accessibility Disclaimer Every effort is made to ensure that the information provided on the ONR website and online services is accurate and up to date, but no legal responsibility is accepted for any errors, omissions or misleading statements. Links ONR is not responsible for, and cannot guarantee the accuracy of, information on sites that it does not manage; nor should the inclusion of a hyperlink be taken in itself to mean endorsement by the ONR of the site, the site owner, or any specific content to which it points. Third party content ONR may also embed third party content such as videos, RSS or twitter feeds on its site. ONR is not responsible for and cannot guarantee the accuracy of this content nor for any related content. It is also not responsible for the quality or accessibility of this content nor of any related content. The embedding of this content on its site should not be taken in itself to mean endorsement by HSE of the content. Further information on third party content is available . Accessibility While we make every effort to ensure the website is accessible to all we are aware of certain problems. For more information about this check our accessibility statement . Further Information Information about the business of ONR is regularly made available through official publications, press releases and publicity. 
file_594.txt|Responses to RAIB reports 2011 Responses to RAIB reports 2011 Our responses to the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) in relation to their recommendations published in 2011. Incident date 
file_975.txt|Recent enforcement actions & investigations Recent enforcement actions & investigations Listed below are the most recently published enforcement actions we have taken against some of the claims management companies we regulate. We will also identify those companies under formal investigation for potential breaches of the Conduct of Authorised Persons Rules. We will not provide further details of the investigation. For information on how and when we publish please read our Publication Policy . Please click on the business name for further details of the enforcement action taken. This list was last updated on 27/11/2014. 
file_159.txt|We're sorry but there is a problem. Please click back to try again or return to the homepage. 
file_392.txt|Health and safety made simple The basics for your business If you think health and safety has to be complicated - it doesn't. This site is for employers and those who want some basic information on what they must do to make sure their businesses comply with health and safety law. Managing health and safety doesn’t have to be complicated, costly or time-consuming. In fact it’s easier than you think. If you have taken reasonable steps to prevent accidents or harm to your employees (and the injury or illness was caused after 1 October 2013), you shouldn’t have to pay compensation For many businesses, all that’s required is a basic series of practical tasks that protect people from harm and at the same time protect the future success and growth of your business. The site will take you through the steps and help you make sure you have done what you need to - and no more. We’ve introduced the H&S ABC logo onto guidance and tools to show small and medium-sized businesses just how straightforward health and safety can be. So when they see the logo, they know that it’s designed specifically with them in mind. In general, health and safety laws apply to all businesses. As an employer, or a self-employed person, you are responsible for health and safety in your business. Health and safety laws are there to protect you, your employees and the public from workplace dangers. The approach you take should be proportionate to the size of your business and the nature of your business activity. For most small, low-risk businesses the steps you need to take are straightforward. If you have fewer than five employees you don’t have to write down your risk assessment or your health and safety policy. Footer links 
file_529.txt|Network Rail is responsible for the stewardship of the railway network and this includes: line-side maintenance including vegetation and fencing track quality environmental issues such as noise and vibration, pollution and graffiti railway structures such as bridges, station buildings, overhead lines, tunnels and signalling network maintenance, particularly engineering work and speed restrictions property issues including changes to use of railway land If you have a complaint or enquiry about Network Rail Your should contact Network Rail's national customer helpline (08457 114 141). Alternatively you can contact them through the Network Rail website . 
file_928.txt|Speech by Richard Price at the Future of Rail 5 Dec 2013 IOSH keynote speech by Richard Price 28 Nov 2013 Speech by Richard Price at the European Rail Congress, London 13 Nov 2013 Speech by Richard Price at Rail Strategies Live, London, 27 June 2013 27 Jun 2013 Presentation by Richard Price, Cathryn Ross and Sue Johnston, ORR 23 May 2013 
file_916.txt|Train operator fined £75,000 for failing to protect safety of passengers First Capital Connect (FCC) has today been fined a total of £75,000 and ordered to pay costs of £27,718 following a prosecution brought by the Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) after the company failed to protect the safety of passengers trapped on a broken down train at Dock Junction, London, in May 2011. 
file_616.txt|Further resources Occupational health training resources and further help Advice on finding suitable occupational health training, including a draft health syllabus tailored for rail managers, and free training resources for smaller companies. As part of our review of existing occupational health training syllabuses, our aim was to source one that could provide rail managers with a broad overview of health risk management, as well as sufficient knowledge of the key occupational health issues facing the rail industry. Although no single syllabus is likely to meet health management training needs across all parts of the rail industry, the National Examining Board for Occupational Safety and Health has worked with us on potential development of a NEBOSH Certificate in Health and Wellbeing for the rail industry pdf icon PDF, 312 Kb . We believe that this draft rail industry syllabus, based on the existing NEBOSH National Certificate in Management of Health and Wellbeing designed as a general qualification across industry sectors, would be a good fit for front line rail managers who have significant responsibility for managing the health of their staff. NEBOSH could develop the draft rail syllabus into a training qualification if there is sufficient support from the industry. Other occupational health training organisations (see further help and guidance below) have indicated that they may also be willing to develop or tailor health risk management courses to meet specific rail industry needs, if there is interest in and commitment from the industry to doing so. For companies specifically involved in rail construction and renewals work, particularly smaller sub-contractors and even heritage operators, basic occupational health training material already developed for the construction sector might be a useful starting point. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) has produced free guidance called Construction Occupational Health Management Essentials or COHME . It offers help with: risk assessment for the main construction industry health risks (asbestos, dermatitis, hand arm vibration risk, MSDs, noise, respiratory disease, and work related stress); provides useful guidance on roles under the Construction (Design and Management) Regulations 2007 (CDM); minimum competences for occupational health service providers; and health surveillance in construction. We understand that Constructing Better Health is in the process of developing an on-line suite of occupational health training modules for the construction industry, which may also be relevant to rail construction and renewals work. Further help and guidance Please note it is our policy to obtain permission to link to other websites. We are not responsible for the content or reliability of the linked websites. Listing should not be taken as endorsement of any kind. We cannot guarantee that these links will work all of the time and we have no control over the availability of linked pages. 
file_415.txt|* Based on site user statistics from HSE's analytics console . Footer links 
file_341.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_990.txt|Lifting the Accreditation Requirement – Consultation Consultations > Lifting the Accreditation Requirement – Consultation Home Back This consultation sets out proposals to lift the requirement that all qualifications be checked by us before they are added to the list of regulated qualifications, known as the accreditation requirement. You can read a letter about the proposals from Chief Regulator Glenys Stacey. Read the consultation You can download a copy of the consultation document in PDF format [PDF, 295KB] There is also a version in Word format . You can browse the online version from the left hand navigation bar. This consultation closed on Wednesday, 6th August 2014. Contents: 
file_274.txt|Home How we regulate Devices Registration of medical devices Registration of medical devices Other sites: (open in a new window) Adobe text conversion tools Registration is a self-declaration process whereby manufacturers and their authorised representatives determine that their product falls within the definition of ‘medical device’ or ‘in vitro diagnostic medical device’, and that they have classified them as falling within Regulation 19/44 of the Medical Devices Regulations (SI 2002 No. 618) taking into account the intended purpose(s) and mode(s) of action. Registration is stipulated in Article 14 of the Medical Devices Directive 93/42/EEC (external link). In this section... Supporting documentation required to complete the processing of registrations Why register? It is a legal requirement that manufacturers (or their authorised representatives or others) placing certain types of medical device or IVD medical devices on the EU market, provide certain information to a competent authority in a EU member state where they have a registered place of business. Who should register? You must register if you: manufacture class I or custom-made devices and place them on the market under your own name, or trading name(s) fully refurbish class I devices, or label one or more ready made devices, with a view to placing them on the market under your own name place devices bearing the CE marking on the market, under your own name in a system or a procedure pack within their intended purposes and within the limits of uses specified by their original manufacturers sterilise, for the purpose of placing on the market under your own name, systems or procedure packs or other CE marked medical devices designed by the manufacturer to be sterilised before use are the authorised representative of a manufacturer who does not have a registered place of business in the EU, or if you import and place on the EU market for a manufacturer who has no authorised representative in the EU, devices within the above listed categories. manufacture in vitro diagnostic medical devices (IVDs) and place them on the market under your own name, or trading name(s) manufacture IVDs for performance evaluation and make them available under your own name, or trading name(s) are the authorised representative of a manufacturer who does not have a registered place of business in the EU. If you do not have a registered place of business in a EU member state you must designate a person established in the EU to act on your behalf. Is it a medical device? For a number of products it is not clear if they are medical device or not.  The European Commission has a guidance document ‘Definitions of medical devices, accessory and manufacturer’ (MEDDEV 2.1/1) and below there are a number of examples (not an exhaustive list) of products that are generally not medical devices. Toiletry and cosmetics products Tooth brushes, dental sticks, dental floss, un-medicated dental chewing gums Baby nappies, hygiene tampons, mattress protectors Contact lenses without corrective function intended to provide colour to the eyes (please note: contact lenses with corrective function, are classified as a class IIa medical device) Instruments for tattooing Deodorants for use with devices Wigs Hand cleansing wipes considered to be a cosmetic product. Personal protective equipment Protective gloves (e.g. for use in a medical laboratory) Disinfectants Wipes/swabs, brushes etc used to disinfect the skin of patients are usually regulated as medicinal products, and would be regulated by our Medicines Division of the MHRA. Wipe/swaps/brushes used by healthcare professionals to disinfect themselves (or other items not classified as medical devices), are usually regulated as biocides, and enforced by the Health and Safety Executive. Other equipment Acoustic signals at traffic lights Breathalysers, other blood or air alcohol measuring devices Non sterile home, occupational, recreational protective/safety apparel Non prescription sunglasses Consumer products aimed at comfort Products for sport or leisure Surgical training kits/packs (kits/packs used for training only) When to register You must inform the competent authority when you first apply the CE marking to your device.  If you have a number of models and the CE marking procedure is being introduced over a period, you may if you wish, inform the UK competent authority of all devices when informing of the first CE marking. Manufacturers of custom-made devices, systems or procedure packs, and sterilisation companies, should register no later than the first time they claim compliance with the Directive. Who to register with If you are a registered business in the UK you may register with the UK competent authority (the MHRA).  If you also have businesses in other member states of the EU, you may chose to inform one of them and not the UK, but you must inform one competent authority in which you have a registered place of business. If your business is registered in another member state and not the UK you should seek information from the competent authority in that member state. How to apply for registration We have two designated forms for registration: These forms include guidance on how to complete them. IVD product classification These devices are required to be grouped together for registration purposes. Standardised groupings are required in order to facilitate the entry of, and access to, the registration data in the European databank. Therefore, each device grouping has a numerical group code so that the groupings can be entered and accessed in a systematic and consistent manner that is independent of language. Either of the following nomenclatures can be used to register with the MHRA: the Global Medical Devices Nomenclature System. This can be accessed from the Global Medical Device Nomenclature (GMDN) website (external link) the European Diagnostic Manufacturers Association (EDMA). The full system may be downloaded from the EDMA website (external link). How much it will cost The current fee is £70.00 per registration or change of registration (under Regulation 53 of the Medical Devices Regulations SI 2002 No. 618) . You can register multiple devices on one form, by just copying additional pages when you run out of room. The fee must be paid at the time of registering. Send the registration form(s) and payment directly to: Registration Scheme Officer, ERA2, Floor 4, 151 Buckingham Palace Road, London, SW1W 9SZ or by email: device.registrations@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Do not send forms to our finance department as this will delay the process. Payment methods Online by debit or credit card This should be supported with enough information to allow us to link the payment to the correct registration form, especially if you submit multiple notifications. Ideally, you will quote the registration reference number and date of the notification. If this is a new registration you will not have been assigned a reference number and so should provide the following: the type of form (RG2 or RG3) date of completing the form UK company name if you are an authorised representative, the company the registration is in respect of (iro). For example: RG2, 04/03/13, UK Devices Ltd iro USA Devices Inc. For convenience you may scan and email the completed RG2/RG3 registration form (to device.registrations@mhra.gsi.gov.uk ), but you must provide a copy of the online payment transaction receipt showing the date of payment, amount paid and the ID transaction number. BACS/CHAPS: this should be supported with enough information to allow us to link the payment to the correct registration form, especially if you submit multiple notifications. Therefore please quote the payment transaction date and reference number on the registration form. Please also give the UK company name and (where different) the manufacturer name when making the BACS/CHAPS payment. Our bank details can be found in the our bank account details section. Cheque: Made payable to 'MHRA' and enclosed with your registration form.  You may wish to consider sending paper form(s) and payment via a secure postal method, so that confirmation of receipt is recorded. What happens to your registration If you register in the UK, the MHRA will acknowledge your registration, allocate and inform you of your registration number, which you should quote in all subsequent correspondence. If we require any further information we will ask for it. There will be a single registration number, allocated for reference purposes only, covering all devices registered by the person responsible. It does not imply any form of approval by the competent authority. Finally, relevant data on your devices will be entered into the European databank (Eudamed) in accordance with the directives (Article 12 of the IVD Directive; Article 14a of the Medical Devices Directive). Changes to registered details After we register your notification, you must use form RG2 or RG3 to tell us about any changes or additions to the registered details. This incurs the same fee as the original registration (£70.00). The following changes incur the fee: change of address change of authorised representative change in status of an IVD e.g. change from ‘performance evaluation’ to ‘new’ or ‘other'. There is no need to inform the MHRA of additional products being placed on the UK market if you have already registered under a generic code within which the new product falls. However, any products falling outside the generic codes registered i.e. an in vitro diagnostic and/or medical device(s) should be registered with the UK competent authority. We may periodically review our records and request confirmation of the registered information. The medical devices register This is a database of registered devices, which is publically available on Public Access Database for Medical Device Registration website. The information is held in alphabetical order by manufacturer name. To locate entries, go to the ‘Edit’ menu on your web page browser and use the ‘Find’ or ‘Find on this page…’ search function. This will only search individual pages of the register and not the entire database. Companies registered as authorised representatives should note that information is published on our website under overseas company name with the UK name appearing beside these details. European databank on medical devices – Eudamed The aim of Eudamed is to strengthen market surveillance and transparency in the field of medical devices by providing member state competent authorities fast access to information on manufacturers and authorised representatives, on devices, certificates, vigilance and on clinical investigation data, as well as to contribute to a uniform application of the Directives, in particular in relation to registration requirements. Further information relating to Eudamed is on the European Commission website (external link). IVD registration: there is no longer a requirement for manufacturers and/or designated authorised representatives based in other EU member states to submit a notification to the UK competent authority under Article 10 of the In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Directive 98/79/EC. Owing to the coming into force of the Commission decision concerning the implementation of the European databank (Eudamed), the MHRA no longer accepts nor acknowledges notifications submitted under the legislation quoted. Supporting documentation required to complete the processing of registrations Authorised representative Any manufacturer based outside the EU must designate an authorised representative (AR). The appointed AR must provide written evidence that they are acting with the consent of a manufacturer located outside the European Union. This may take the form of a letter of designation/contract from the overseas manufacturer. Providing the following information upon submitting your form will enable us to process your registration faster: Headed designation letter The letter should state the full name and address of the AR and that they are the designated EU authorised representative based within the UK, under the Medical Devices Directive 93/42EC. In the case of a notification/registration for an in vitro diagnostic device please quote the Directive IVD Medical Devices Directive 98/79EC. Headed cancellation/termination letter In the case of an overseas manufacturer employing a new AR, the MHRA will require a copy of the letter from the overseas manufacturer, to the old AR terminating their services, and the date the service or contact is due to end. Change of company name So that we can establish whether the allocation of a new registration number is appropriate any registrations where there has been a change of company name, including becoming a limited company, will need confirmation in writing stating whether there has been or has not been a change in the legal entity of the business e.g. enough changes to the operations or structure of the company, as to be wholly different to the previous registration. Guidance on the activity of operating as an authorised representative can be found in the European Commission’s ‘ Guideline for authorised representatives’ MEDDEV 2.5/10 . Important note regarding the registration process Once a valid notification form and payment have been submitted to us, there is no requirement for companies to wait for an acknowledgement letter from the MHRA before placing CE marked devices on the EU market. In accepting a registration, the competent authority does not examine each individual notification and therefore cannot and does not necessarily endorse these determinations.  Neither does the MHRA's registration letter represent any form of accreditation, certification or approval by the UK competent authority; it is just our acknowledgement that the registration process is at an end. The MHRA does, however, reserve the right to take action against products placed on the UK market which are considered to be incorrectly CE marked, determined as an in vitro diagnostic device and/or classified as a medical device. We have a frequently asked questions (FAQ) page , if you still have questions regarding the registration requirements. Contact us If you are already registered with us, please contact us under the following alphabetical splits for your company name or the surname under which the registration is held: A – D Jasu Patel on 020 3080 7195 E – M Barbara Clarke on 020 3080 7318 N – Z Angela Bartley on 020 3080 7149 or send your enquiry via email to: mb-mda-era@mhra.gsi.gov.uk . You can also use this email address to give us feedback on our guidance and how it is presented. Other information See also our sections on custom-made devices and ophthalmic products . Page last modified: 		 		28 October 2013 
file_660.txt|Workshops Workshops and stakeholder events On this page you will find details of workshops and stakeholder engagement events we held as part of the consultation process for the periodic review 2013 (PR13). Draft determination conferences We held three workshops on 19 and 24 June and 16 July 2013. Following publication of the draft determination we hosted these events to present our views on key issues and what will be different in the next control period, including: Efficient expenditure Workshop on Network Rail's strategic business plan (SBP) We held a workshop on 13 February 2013 on Network Rail's SBP . Efficient expenditure workshop We held a workshop on 26 October 2012 to update industry stakeholders on the progress of our work on assessing the efficient levels of expenditure for Network Rail, including how we planned to assess efficient expenditure elements of the strategic business plan ahead of its publication by Network Rail in January 2013. Financial issues workshop We held a workshop on 5 September 2012 to discuss issues raised in our financial issues consultation. Track access charges workshop: cap on variable usage charge and freight-specific charge We held a workshop on track access charges (relating to a proposed cap on variable usage charge and a freight-specific charge) on Thursday 5 July 2012. Incentives workshop We held a workshop on 9 January 2012 to discuss issues raised in our incentives consultation. Possessions regime workshop We held a workshop on 11 November 2011 to start off our review of the Schedule 4 possessions regime. Performance regime workshop We held a workshop on 25 July 2011 to start off our review of the Schedule 8 performance regime. Stakeholder events As part of the consultation process, we completed a series of workshops in Cardiff, Edinburgh, London and Manchester in July 2011. Notes, presentations, agendas and attendees to these events are available. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_251.txt|Adobe text conversion tools The British Pharmacopoeia (BP), which is now published annually, is the only comprehensive collection of standards for UK medicinal substances. It contributes to the overall control of the quality of medicinal products by providing an authoritative statement of the standard that a product is expected to meet at any time during its period of use. The publicly available and legally enforceable pharmacopoeia standards are designed to complement and assist the MHRA licensing processes for medicinal products, and are part of the system for safeguarding public health. The BP is an essential reference for all individuals and organisations involved in pharmaceutical research, development, and manufacture and testing of medicines. For further information on the BP, please see the British Pharmacopoeia website: The British Pharmacopoeia website (external link) The new website offers a subscription service allowing access to new and revised monographs, monographs omitted from previous editions of the BP and typical chromatograms published in the hard copy BP. It is anticipated the new site will make a significant contribution to improving communication with stakeholders in line with the Government's initiative for better regulation, providing transparency in the monograph development and standard setting process and advice and guidance to users of the BP. Electronic forms for submitting monograph revision requests and initiation proposals are included on the site, along with corrections for the latest edition of the BP. Page last modified: 		 		03 January 2014 
file_514.txt|Civil service people survey Civil service people survey In October 2014, we participated in the sixth cross-government Civil Service people survey. You can find our results in the highlights report below. The 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 reports are also available for easy comparison. You can also read the report pdf icon PDF, 55 Kb on a series of questions on organisational culture, which were included in the People Survey for the first time in 2012. Survey results 
file_238.txt|All Medical devices that are placed on the market in the UK have to comply with two sets of device-specific legislation: European Union laws – the Medical Devices Directives and Regulations UK laws – the Medical Devices Regulations Each member state of the EU implements the Directives into their own national law; in the UK these are the Medical Devices Regulations 2002 (as amended) and they are issued under the Consumer Protection Act 1987. EU regulations apply directly to the UK and do not need to be transposed. The legislation places obligations on manufacturers to ensure that their devices are safe and fit for their intended purpose before they are CE marked and placed on the market in any EU member state. In this section we provide guidance on the various aspects of regulating medical devices from decisions on whether a product is considered to be a medical device to post-market surveillance of any problems arising from using the device. Our guidance is intended as a general explanation of the legislation and should not be regarded as an authoritative statement of the law nor as having any legal consequence. It follows that manufacturers and others should not rely solely on this guidance but should consult the legislation referred to and make their own decisions on matters affecting them in conjunction with their lawyers and other professional advisers. The MHRA does not accept liability for any errors, omissions or other statements in the guidance whether negligent or otherwise. An authoritative statement could be given only by the courts. Borderlines 
file_888.txt|Decisions library Decisions library This page contains archived track access decisions by section for the past 2 years. For older decisions please see the National Archives . Section 17 
file_704.txt|Network management Network management Condition 1 of the network licence pdf icon PDF, 231 Kb sets out Network Rail's core obligations to secure the operation, maintenance, renewal and enhancement of the network in order to satisfy the reasonable requirements of its customers and funders. This covers both the quality and capability of the network and the facilitation of railway service performance. Network management 
file_991.txt|Ofqual Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 3.12The DfE is consulting on the content for GCSEs in cooking and nutrition. 13 Proposed assessment arrangements 3.13GCSE cooking and nutrition will be a new qualification. It is designed to draw upon different elements of three existing qualifications 14 and add some new content, such as the scientific knowledge underpinning food preparation techniques. 3.14We have considered the draft content, which sets out the knowledge, understanding and skill requirements for the subject. The subject content includes a significant practical focus on students’ ability to prepare and cook food. 3.15We are of the view that new GCSE qualifications in cooking and nutrition should use both exam and non-exam assessments. Non exam assessments will allow students to apply their theoretical knowledge and understanding in a practical context to plan, prepare and cook meals. We propose that 50 per cent of the marks should be allocated to non-exam assessments, reflecting the balance between the practical and theoretical elements set out in the subject content. Tiering 3.16We propose that the new GCSEs in cooking and nutrition should not be tiered. Proposed assessment objectives 3.17We propose the following assessment objectives and weightings: Assessment objectives 
file_566.txt|Health and safety performance in 2013-14 An overview of railway health and safety performance on Britain's railways in 2013-14. Passenger safety - overall picture Source: RSSB analysis based on data from DfT, ORR and RSSB. The graph above clearly shows that safety on Britain's mainline railways continues to improve. Traveling by railway remains a safer form of transport than road, but both are growing ever safer as risk is designed out, new technologies and processes are applied; and lessons are learnt from other industries. Passenger fatalities and weighted injuries Source: RSSB. There were four passenger fatalities in 2013-14. All occurred at the PTI and involved passengers falling from the platform edge on to the track. Slips, trips and falls incidents represent 47% of the fatalities weighted index (FWI) risk to passengers. The PTI risk represent 48% of the fatality risk to passengers. Around 80% of the FWI harm to passengers occur at stations – mostly involving slips, trips and falls incidents on stairs, escalators and at the platform edge, including incidents where passengers are struck by a train while standing too close to the platform edge. However, once increases in passenger numbers were taken in account in 2013-14, normalised passenger boarding and alighting risks declined 19% and normalised slips, trips and falls harm declined 17%. Common causal factors in PTI passenger incidents are passenger intoxication; 66% or 21 out of the 32 passenger fatalities in the last decade. Workforce fatalities and weighted injuries Source: RSSB. The workforce fatalities and injuries trend has remained broadly static over CP4, but normalised workforce risk worsened 7% in 2013-14 compared to 2012-13. Overall workforce fatality, major and minor FWI risk all increased over 2013-14, which shows the industry's performance is still some way off achieving excellence in health and safety risk management. Although there was a 20% reduction in normalised workforce risk between control periods 3 (2005-209) 4 (2009-14).The top-five workforce injury incidents were slips, trips and falls; contact with objects; on-board injuries; struck and/or crushed by train; and assaults and abuse incidents. Infrastructure worker fatalities and weighted injuries Of the overall workforce risk during CP4, 47% of the total harm was borne by infrastructure workers. Over the last decade, 20 of the last 25 worker fatalities have involved infrastructure workers and 60% of overall major injuries occurred to infrastructure workers. Slips, trips and falls represent 37% of the recorded harm to infrastructure workers. Major injury risks to infrastructure workers are mostly caused by: slips, trips and falls (44%) and contact with objects (32%). The number of major injuries to infrastructure workers increased 16% in 2013-14 compared to 2012-13 and is at its highest level for five years. On 37 occasions over the last decade infrastructure workers have been struck by trains resulting in 42 injuries including 11 fatalities, 18 major and 9 minor injuries. This is far too high, which is why it remains a key focus of our future intervention plans. Infrastructure worker fatalities and weighted injuries Source: RSSB. Source: RSSB analysis based on Eurostat data . Passenger and workforce fatality rates on Britain's railways were well below the European Union (EU) average over the five-year period 2008-2012, mainly because the last passenger fatality was in the Grayrigg derailment in 2007. Britain is the best in the EU at managing passenger and level crossing safety, third-best at managing employee safety and fifth-best at managing public safety. The current picture on the mainline railway: Precursor Indicator Model (PIM) Source: RSSB. Based on version 8 of the SRM (up to April 2014), train accident risk accounts for around 5% of the overall risk on Britain's mainline railways. Over 2013-14, the precursor indicator model (PIM), which monitors the risk from potentially higher risk train accidents (PHRTAs) based on accident precursor trends, reduced 4.8%; down from 7.90 FWI at the end of 2012-13 to 7.52 FWI at the end of 2013-4. This was mainly because of reductions in trains and rolling stock, public behaviour and environmental PIM precursor sub-groups. Over the same period, the risk to passenger component of the PIM increased 1.2%, from 3.28-FWI at the end of 2012-13 to 3.32-FWI at the end of 2013-14, because of slight increases in operational incidents and SPAD risks. Slight differences between the PIM and SRM models trend results The SRM and PIM models are designed to capture two slightly different aspects and purposes of safety on Britain mainline railways: the PIM provides an on-going indication of changes in train accident risk from PHRTAs by tracking common precursors and mapping their frequencies risk using information on the average consequences from such events using the SRM. The PIM is intended to flag up short-term fluctuations in specific categories  of accident precursor trends; the SRM provides a snapshot estimate of all train accident risk, based on the analysis of likely harm caused by specific categories of risk events using a longer dataset period, in the form of a quantified risk assessment, as measured by the fatalities and weighted injuries (FWI) index. It also models  risk from 'train accidents' that did not happen but had the potential to do so. The SRM is intended to avoid short-term volatility and be used to inform dutyholders' cost-benefits analysis and assessment of their underlying risk profiles. Periodically (about ever 18-12 months), the assumptions on which  the SRM is based are revised using the new observations of the most recent accidents and precursors. Improving industry safety risk modelling The earlier versions of the industry's SRM and PIM risk models were based on insufficiently sophisticated data sources to capture the detail of underlying infrastructure precursor risks, but important work has since been done by RSSB and Network Rail in 2013-14 to improve this. The PIM is now able to be updated more frequently. The project to expand the activities recorded by the mainline railways' safety management information system (SMIS) by 2015 is underway, which reflects the RSSB-led initiatives to develop an even better understanding of system safety. This will include improved reporting on workforce occupational road risk, railway replacement services, railway construction sites and other workforce risk, as well as areas of workforce activities, which SMIS has not traditionally captured, such as signal centres and off-site work offices. We commend this continuous improvement to deepen the system risk landscape picture as it helps identify risk priorities. Benefits of more disaggregated CP5 data There are real potential benefits in using disaggregated CP5 data to benchmark comparative data and help build a regional and route-level safety performance picture of accident precursor and potential risk. We plan to use more disaggregated data in our future CP5 health and safety reports. Trends in SPAD number by risk-ranking score, 2004-5 to 2013-14 Source: RSSB. The mainline industry's SPAD performance worsened in 2013-14, especially compared to 2012-13 and our work with the industry to respond to this is set out on pages 7 and 17-18. In summary, SPAD numbers increased 17% across the mainline network, but overall levels of SPAD risk remained broadly static. In the longer-term the industry is seeking whether there are 'systematic influences' on the reason for the increase in SPAD numbers. Trends in potentially high risk train accidents (PHRTAs) Potentially higher-risk train accident trend has been relatively static since 2011-12, following a significant decline in 2010-11. The 32 PHRTAs in 2013-14 included the two 'cyclic-top' caused freight train derailments at Gloucester and Camden Town in London. There were no passenger train derailments in 2013-14. The industry's and our focus on PHRTAs is because they represent 93% of train accident risk on the mainline railway, but account for only around 5% of RIDDOR-reportable events. The numbers of PHRTA events normalised by train kilometres travelled on Britain's mainline railway, reduced 39% in CP4 (2009-14) compared to CP3 (2005-09). Trends in potentially high risk train accidents (PHRTAs) Source: RSSB. Wrong-side failures with a '50+' hazard index categorisation The moving annual average of wrong-side failures with a '50+' hazard index categorisation increased over 2013-14, mostly because of track and structure-related incidents during the adverse wet and windy weather of the winter 2013-14 and spring 2014. Track geometry faults While not necessarily a direct safety indicator, 'level 2' track geometry faults can provide a potentially useful leading underlying safety indicator because they can lead to more significant and potentially catastrophic accident precursors. Track geometry faults: level 2 exceedances (per mile and per 100 kms) Source: Network Rail. The national 'level 2' exceedance trend has declined gradually since mid-2012-13, but has remained historically high on Sussex Route because of: insufficient resources to deal with long-term underperformance in track geometry; low-level of renewals; poor planning and contractor failures; poor track access levels, especially on the Brighton main line and inner-London routes; and inherent design problems associated with the south London metro area. To combat this we have maintained an intensive monitoring of Sussex's track performance over the past two years. While numbers remain high, we found evidence that the route's delivery units do take appropriate remedial action to deal with the faults, but note the underlying problems, outlined above, that can led to repeat 'level 2' defects. Confirmed/suspected trespass and confirmed/suspected suicide fatalities since 2004 Suicides have continued to increase to a record high of 279 'suicides or suspected suicides' in 2013-14, compared to 246 in 2012-13, but trespass fatalities notable declined in 2013-14. There were 21 trespass fatalities in 2013-14, compared to 32 in 2012-13. The slowing trend of trespass fatalities, illustrates that the industry's work to better control infrastructure access is being increasingly effective. Over CP4, the two key causes of trespass fatalities are from being struck by a train (70%) and electrocution (18%). Of the risks to the public on Britain's mainline railway, as modelled by the SRM version 8, 76% is caused by trespass and 11% by pedestrians and 5.5% by road vehicle collision at level crossings. While the combined confirmed/suspected trespass and confirmed/suspected suicide fatalities trend has continued to rise over the last decade, there's also a subtly changing underlying causation message. The reasons for this change are two-fold: railway-related suicides increased notably since 2011-12; part of an international trend often associated with the impact of the global economic downturn. Nationally, Britain's suicide rates increased in 2011-2012. Around 4.4% of suicides in Britain occur on the railways, of which around 46% involved  15-44 year old men; and the provision of enhanced incident data (from 2009-10 to the present) by the BTP has enabled RSSB to use of the Oventstone suicide classification criteria and more accurately classify incidents, which has led to more trespass incidents being reviewed and re-categorised as suspected suicide. Source: RSSB. Dealing with suicides is a difficult and sensitive matter. The 17% rise in railway suicide numbers over CP4 is similar to the rise in the trend nationally. Nonetheless, it is disappointing for the industry considering the significant efforts to prevent railways suicide and the damaging impact such events can have on the railway's workforce and other witnesses. For example, since 2010, Network Rail's on-going work with the Samaritans has led to over 5,000-front-line staff being trained in active suicide prevention work. They made over 600 such interventions in 2013-14. There has also been good work to improve post-incident support for the railways workforce and other witnesses; and to encourage responsible media reporting of such incidents. We will continue to proactively apply health and safety law to ensure dutyholders control risks of trespass and suicide so far as is reasonably practicable. Levels of reported vandalism declined 63% over the last decade and the costs of dealing with incidents of cable theft are now at their lowest since before 2006. Level crossings Level crossing risk continues to decline following our focus and significant industry efforts: over CP4 (2009-14) the total level of level crossing FWI harm, when normalised by train kilometres travelled, reduced 33% compared to CP3 (2005-2009) and 804 crossings were closed. There was a notable reduction in level crossing fatalities in 2009-10 which has been broadly sustained over the last four years. There were eight level crossing fatalities in 2013-14: two-car occupants in the same incident at an automatic half-barrier crossing, five pedestrians and one cyclist (five of these were at passive user-worked crossings and one at a manually-controlled crossing). None were industry-caused. Source: RSSB There were 10 collisions between train and cars at level crossings over 2013-14. Overall, the level crossing risk long-term trend is declining, but as a proportion, there was a slight increase in pedestrian fatalities at level crossings in 2013-14. There were a total of 48 recorded vehicle incursions on the mainline infrastructure, down 15.8% in 2013-14, of which one resulted in a collision between the vehicle and a train. Mainline data quality In 2013, the national data quality score was 88.2%, which was similar to the level recorded in 2012. We pay particular attention to RSSB's annual quality health check reports which help ensure the quality of data RSSB collects and uses, on behalf of the mainline industry, is reliable and improves over time. Tram operator collisions with motor vehicles and pedestrians, 2011 to 2013-14 Reported tram collisions with motor vehicles Tram operator 
file_832.txt|High speed rail (HS2) is a project run by the Department for Transport (DfT). High speed rail (HS2) Following a consultation by the DfT, the Government has decided to proceed with the development of a new high speed rail network in the UK, with a first phase between London and the West Midlands. Further information is available on the DfT website . 
file_814.txt|Licence exemptions by company T - Z Abbreviations for terms used describing licence exemptions listed in this section: LMD : a light maintenance depot where services such as refuelling and cleaning trains takes place, and other frequent light maintenance work. Heritage: an operation primarily used for tourist, educational or recreational purposes of non-mainline passenger services and assets, usually on a preserved railway line. Network: a railway line or combination of lines and installations. Licence exempt networks are usually functionally separate from the national network. Usually they will also be operated within a fenced or controlled access territory. This includes freight sidings or goods terminals. Contractor: a rail maintenance company which undertakes track maintenance and repair, usually on behalf of Network Rail. Maintenance activities take place within engineering possessions using specialist or Rail Mounted Maintenance Vehicles (RMMVs). Non-passenger trains: freight or maintenance trains. In the context of exemptions, this would include short distance, non-mainline shunting operations in specific areas. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_825.txt|Station car park charges Prices at station car parks are not regulated. The decision to charge for car parking at a station and, if so, at what level is a commercial decision for the station operator, as it is for any other commercial car parking provider. If you have concerns about the price of parking at a train station, your first step should be to contact the station operator and voice those concerns. We enforce the Competition Act 1998, which makes it illegal for companies to do certain things, for example, use their powerful position in the market to take advantage of consumers or fix prices and we may conduct an investigation if we have reasonable grounds to suspect the law has been broken. If you think we should look at your fare, please look at our approach to the application of competition law to rail fares and car park charges . It is set out in our web-based guide and our set of quick reference questions and answer on this topic. If, after reading our guide you think we should look at the price of your car park, please go to our how to complain guide pdf icon PDF, 47 Kb for information on how to make a complaint. Last updated - 1 September 2014 
file_773.txt|Other track access decisions 2012-13 Other track access decisions 2012-13 This page contains all other archived track access decisions. Date 
file_461.txt|Business plan Business plan 2014-15 Our business plan summarises what we aim to achieve this year and provides detail around our five strategic objectives. Download our business plan for 2014 - 2015 pdf icon PDF, 1,785 Kb 2013-14 saw the completion of our Periodic Review (PR13) of Network Rail's outputs and funding for the five-year control period to 2018-19 (CP5). So 2014-15 is now about putting that into action. We will drive for the best possible outcome for the railway's customers and for taxpayers in England, Wales and Scotland. In doing so, our five strategic objectives remain unchanged: Driving for a safer railway; Supporting a better service for customers; Securing value for money from the railway; Promoting an increasingly dynamic and commercially sustainable sector; and Being a high-performing regulator. 
file_672.txt|Route-level efficiency benefit sharing Route-level efficiency benefit sharing (REBS) mechanism As part of our 2013 periodic review (PR13), we decided to replace the existing efficiency benefit sharing mechanism (EBSM) with a route level incentive mechanism for control period 5 (CP5), which runs from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019. The route level efficiency benefit sharing (REBS) mechanism will encourage Network Rail and train operators (passenger and freight) to work together and allow both to share in Network Rail's efficiency gains or losses on an annual basis. Further to chapter 19 of our PR13 final determination , which sets out our decisions on REBS, we have developed a guide to explain the key features of REBS and to provide examples of how REBS will work in practice during control period 5. Guide to the route level efficiency benefit sharing (REBS) mechanism in control period 5 (CP5) pdf icon PDF, 925 Kb 16 April 2014 Guide to the route level efficiency benefit sharing (REBS) mechanism in control period 5 (CP5) pdf icon PDF, 638 Kb 31 March 2014 We will update the REBS guide from time-to-time to include new information and to reflect feedback from stakeholders. If we do make changes to the guide, we will publish the updated guidance on this webpage and send it to train operators (both passenger and freight) and Network Rail. Opting-out of REBS Train operators have three months from the start of CP5 to decide whether to participate in REBS for CP5, ie whether to exercise their right to opt-out of the mechanism. There are also some circumstances where train operators can opt-out of REBS within CP5. To opt out at the start of CP5, train operators need to send an opt-out notice to Network Rail by 30 June 2013, setting out their intention to opt-out of REBS in CP5. Train operators that do not opt-out will automatically be 'opted-in' to REBS for the whole of CP5. Template versions of the opt-out notices, contained in track access agreements, are set out below: 
file_985.txt|Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 Consultations > Developing new GCSEs, A levels and AS qualifications for first teaching in 2016 − Part 2 This consultation is about developing new GCSE, A level and AS qualifications for first teaching in September 2016. It covers these subjects: GCSEs Citizenship studies, Cooking and nutrition, Design and technology and Drama A level and AS qualifications Drama and theatre Discussion Events We are organising short focussed discussion events to discuss the reforms as they will impact on different subjects. These have been arranged as a result of feedback on the most appropriate days, locations and times. See all dates and book a place here . Read the consultation You can download a copy of the consultation document in PDF format [PDF, 550KB] There is a version in Word format [DOCX, 187KB] that you can fill in and send back to us. You can also browse the online version from the left hand navigation bar. Alongside this consultation, DfE is consulting on the content that will be used for each of these subjects. The consultation can be found here . How to respond If you have an interest in GCSE, A level and AS qualifications we hope you will respond to this consultation. You do not have to respond to all questions; you might prefer to answer those related to a specific subject only. Please respond to this consultation in one of three ways: Complete the online response at http://surveys.ofqual.gov.uk/s3/developing-new-qualifications-for-first-teaching-in-2016-part-2 Email your response to consultations@ofqual.gov.uk – please include 'GCSE, A level and AS Qualification Subject Requirements' in the subject line of the email and make clear who you are and in what capacity you are responding. Post your response to: GCSE, A level and AS Qualification Subject Requirements, Ofqual, Spring Place, Coventry Business Park, Herald Avenue, Coventry, CV5 6UB. The closing date for responses to the consultation is Wednesday, 19th November 2014. Contents: 
file_156.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Press room All the latest news plus useful information for journalists. All enquiries from journalists must be directed to our press team. 
file_1000.txt|We collect certain information or data about you when you use GOV.UK. This includes: questions, queries or feedback you leave, including your email address if you send an email to GOV.UK your IP address, and details of which version of web browser you used information on how you use the site, using cookies and page tagging techniques to help us improve the website details to allow you to access government services and transactions, eg an email address (you’ll always be told when this information is being collected, and it will only be used for the purpose you provide it for) This helps us to: improve the site by monitoring how you use it respond to any feedback you send us, if you’ve asked us to provide you with information about local services if you want it We can’t personally identify you using your data. Where your data is stored We store your data on our secure servers in the UK. It may also be stored outside of Europe, where it could be viewed by our staff or suppliers. By submitting your personal data, you agree to this. Keeping your data secure Transmitting information over the internet is generally not completely secure, and we can’t guarantee the security of your data. Any data you transmit is at your own risk. We have procedures and security features in place to try and keep your data secure once we receive it. We won’t share your information with any other organisations for marketing, market research or commercial purposes, and we don’t pass on your details to other websites. Payment transactions are always encrypted. Disclosing your information We may pass on your personal information if we have a legal obligation to do so, or if we have to enforce or apply our terms of use and other agreements. This includes exchanging information with other government departments for legal reasons. Your rights You can find out what information we hold about you , and ask us not to use any of the information we collect. Links to other websites GOV.UK contains links to and from other websites. This privacy policy only applies to this website, and doesn’t cover other government services and transactions that we link to. Following a link to another website If you go to another website from this one, read the privacy policy on that website to find out what it does with your information. Following a link to GOV.UK from another website If you come to GOV.UK from another website, we may receive personal information about you from the other website. You should read the privacy policy of the website you came from to find out more about this. Help us improve GOV.UK Please don't include any personal or financial information,   for example your National Insurance or credit card numbers. What you were doing 
file_790.txt|General approvals General approvals Sections 18(1)(c) and 22(3) of the Railways Act 1993 enable us to give our prior approval of new access agreements and to the amendment of existing agreements. So, we have produced wide-ranging general approvals for use in the majority of station and depot access applications for new agreements, and amendments to existing agreements. If you require any further information on using the general approvals, please contact us . Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_648.txt|Network Rail regulation Network Rail regulation Network Rail is the monopoly owner and operator of the railway network, including track, signalling, bridges, tunnels and stations. We regulate Network Rail's stewardship of the rail network for the long term – for investors, train companies and their passengers, freight customers and the taxpayer. We hold Network Rail to account for delivering what it promised – at the amount it agreed to do it for – and we require it to provide passengers with a punctual, reliable service. Periodic review 2013 (PR13) At the heart of the review is our assessment of what Network Rail must achieve from 2014 to 2019, the money it needs to do so, and the incentives needed to encourage delivery and outperformance. 
file_522.txt|Our policy on working with SMEs Our policy on working with small and medium enterprises (SMEs) The Government's policy on creating opportunities for SMEs and third sector organisations is to encourage and support these organisations to compete for public sector contracts where this is consistent with value for money policy and the UK regulations, EU Procurement Directives and our obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. All open tenders which could appeal to SMEs will be flagged as such and if they are above £10,000 they will be electronically advertised. We will use Contracts Finder to advertise suitable contracts. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_298.txt|Further Information Precusors Indicator Model The Railway Safety Standard Board's (RSSB) Precursor Indicator Model (PIM) has been published on the ORR Data Portal since 9th May 2011.  RSSB have now taken the decision to publish the raw data on their website.  This will be more frequently updated and presented at a lower level of aggregation than was done to date on the ORR Data Portal.  To avoid duplication of effort, the ORR has decided to withdraw this publication from the ORR Data Portal.  Historical data has been removed from the Data Portal since RSSB has also amended their method of producing the PIM which means that this historical data is no longer consistent with the latest published data, because in the revised PIM, RSSB is now using additional risk-ranked data provided by Network Rail, such as track condition, landslip and structure risk data. To access the latest PIM data, please visit the RSSB webpage at http://www.safetyriskmodel.co.uk/pages/default.aspx . Please note that registration and login is required to download the excel spreadsheet containing the raw numbers. Rail market share publication Rail market share was due to be published on 25th July 2013 as part of the freight market indicators release. ORR have not received freight data for other modes of transport from the Department for Transport so we were unable to publish the dataset at this time. The other tables within freight market indicators, impact on road haulage and number of freight train movements were published as scheduled. The updated publication date for rail market share will be confirmed when we are in receipt of the data.  DfT road freight data are not yet available for 2011 though it is hoped that updated estimates will be produced later in 2014. Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch publication As part of our commitment to maintaining the quality of all our data, we run a quality assurance process. This process identified issues with comparability between the London TravelWatch and Passenger Focus data used to produce the Appeals opened by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch table and Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch table. As data quality is critical, we did not publish the 2012-13 Q4 update to the Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch table on Thursday 20th June. The remaining data for 2012-13 was published on Thursday 17th October. However, due to differences in methodology between London TravelWatch and Passenger Focus for the appeals opened data, from 2013-14 we will not publish the data for the foreseeable future. Passenger Focus intend to publish statistics on the number of appeals resolved and we will be sign-posting to their website once published. We still have concerns over the data quality for the Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch table and therefore will not publish the data for the foreseeable future. Please contact us if you would like more information. We would like to apologise for any inconvenience this causes. Crowding Data Publication Our commitment to transparency means working with our data providers to ensure relevant datasets are disseminated to users, while at the same time avoiding duplication. Crowding data is an area where we believe we can become more efficient. To date, subsets of the crowding data have been supplied to us by Department for Transport (DfT) and published on the NRT Data Portal, despite them already being published on the DfT website at an earlier date. From August 2013 we will therefore stop publishing the crowding data and instead provide a reference (sign-posting) to the data on the DfT website. The sign-posting will start with the 2012-13 data, which was published by DfT on the 24th July 2013. Latest reports 
file_587.txt|Types of Incidents Serious incidents requiring notification by telephone This page contains a list of fatalities, serious injuries and serious dangerous occurrences that need to be notified to us by telephone. Serious incidents requiring notification by telephone Any accident (derailment, collision, fire etc.) to a passenger train, tram or guided transport system where fatalities or serious injuries occur to passengers, rail employees, other members of the public. Any serious accident to a train, tram or guided transport system (e.g. high speed derailment or head-on collision) even if there are no casualties. Any accident involving the release or combustion of dangerous goods from a train which necessitates the evacuation of railway personnel or the general public from the area affected. Any dangerous occurrence (see Chapter 5) involving a freight train carrying radioactive materials. Any collision between a train and a road vehicle at a level crossing whether or not there have been any injuries. Any pedestrian fatality at any type of level crossing. Any fatal accident or serious injury (life threatening) to a rail employee on duty. Any incident in which a passenger or their clothing or baggage is caught in the doors of a departing train in a manner likely to kill or injure that person. Any child (age under 18 years) trespasser fatally or seriously injured on the railway. Any fatality or life threatening injury to a passenger. The overturning or collapse of any crane, collapse of a high scaffold, collapse of a bridge or tunnel, failure of a structure which occurs on, or blocks, a railway. Any incident of a runaway involving a train, wagon, engineers' trolley or on-track machinery. Any incident which results or could have resulted in the release of a biological agent likely to cause severe human infection or illness (for example Legionella). Any reportable injury or dangerous occurrence not mentioned above which receives or is likely to receive media attention. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_31.txt|Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
file_548.txt|Safety approvals under orders and private acts Safety approvals under orders and private acts This page gives an overview of how we will process applications for safety-related approvals required under Transport and Works Act Orders, Light Railway Act Orders and Private Acts of Parliament. Safety approvals under orders and private acts of Parliament This guide pdf icon PDF, 57 Kb describes how ORR will process applications for safety-related approvals required under Transport and Works Act Orders, Light Railway Act Orders and Private Acts of Parliament. The approval powers have been delegated to us by the Secretary of State for Transport. The Department for Transport (DfT) retains non safety-related approval powers under the terms of an Agency Agreement pdf icon PDF, 104 Kb agreed between DfT and ORR. Dutyholders should not have to generate any more documentation than would normally be produced as part of a robust safety management system. Outline of the process involved On receipt of notification from the dutyholder of proposed works, we will consider the relevant piece of legislation, which should be provided by the dutyholder, to determine the specific scope of approval required. We will decide, after discussion with the dutyholder, on the evidence required to allow it to determine whether the works / procedures within the scope of the approval can be brought into operation. We will assess the evidence it needs to process the application. In doing so, it may conduct reviews, inspections or audits. Our inspectors allocated to the scheme will prepare a report setting out the findings of their work. On the basis of the report, our Director of Railway Safety will send a letter to the dutyholder approving the specific works / procedures covered by the legislation, or setting out the reasons why we cannot give approval. It is for the dutyholder to demonstrate that a proposed scheme will comply with standards / be a sensible change etc and risks are controlled (whether they are non-safety or safety related) and it is for us to authorise on behalf of DfT. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_468.txt|Underground railways Underground railways An underground system is defined as an electric railway public transport network (a metro or subway system) that runs both above and underground. How do we regulate underground railways? We regulate both London Underground Limited (LU) and the Strathclyde Partnership for Transport (SPT). LU is responsible for over 3 million passenger journeys each day (approx 1.1bn passenger journey per year). SPT carries 13.16 million passengers each year. We undertake inspections and investigations and provide advice and guidance on health and safety matters. We also enforce health and safety legislation on both of the networks. One of our requirements is that LUL and SPT have appropriate systems and procedures in place to ensure the safety of its staff and customers. Our inspectors investigate incidents involving passengers and employees, as well as derailments, signals passed at danger (SPADs) and other operational incidents. Inspectors also investigate complaints from employees, contractors and members of the public on a variety of issues. These have included drivers maintaining route knowledge, line side debris, track maintenance, station hazards and depot safety issues. Key issues The following are key areas of interest in London Underground: Platform / train interface: considering LUL's arrangements for controlling risks to passengers boarding and alighting from trains. Infrastructure maintenance and change: monitoring the effectiveness of the LUL maintenance regime (e.g. For track) and ensuring that changes to the infrastructure (e.g. introduction of new signalling systems) is carried out safely . SPADs: monitoring progress with improving signal reliability, driver behaviour and the quality of SPAD investigations. Control of contractors and employee safety: we have carried out site visits looking at track renewals and other engineering work. These considered site management arrangements, precautions relating to moving trains and on-track plant, and various occupational health risks to construction workers. Safety culture and safety-critical communications: looking at clarity in communications and management related to health and safety, as well as compliance with safety-critical communications standards. Rolling stock: looking at how LUL maintains its older train fleets in a safe condition and how it safely introduces new rolling stock onto the system. And on the SPT Subway: Safety by design: monitoring how SPT are ensuring that the ongoing Subway modernisation delivers modern safe design for stations, trains and infrastructure. Management of change: monitoring how SPT ensures that changes to its organisation, operation and infrastructure are carried out safely. Platform / train interface: monitoring SPT's arrangements for controlling risks to passengers boarding and alighting from trains. Rolling stock: looking at how the existing fleet is being maintained in the run up to its replacement. Last updated - 11 April 2014 
file_782.txt|Determined appeals Determined appeals Under Part M of the Network Code, parties can appeal to ORR against determinations made by the relevant panel of the Access Disputes Committee which it considers to be wrong or unjust because of a serious procedural or other irregularity. 
file_264.txt|Printer friendly version (new window) The MHRA 's primary objective is to safeguard public health by ensuring that all medicines on the UK market meet appropriate standards of safety, quality and efficacy. Safety aspects cover potential or actual harmful effects; quality relates to development, manufacture and distribution; and efficacy is a measure of the beneficial effect of the medicine on patients. Quality underpins both safety and efficacy and the MHRA promotes the understanding and development of quality assurance in the development, manufacture and distribution of medicinal products. This section of the site explains how the MHRA carries out this area of work. Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) is that part of quality assurance which ensures that medicinal products are consistently produced and controlled to the quality standards appropriate to their intended use and as required by the marketing authorisation (MA) or product specification. GMP is concerned with both production and quality control. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Good Clinical Practice (GCP) The MHRA's Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Inspectorate is part of the Inspections & Standards Division of the MHRA. It assesses the compliance of organisations conducting clinical trials using investigational medicinal products with UK and EU legislation. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) GLP inspectors verify that test facilities which conduct non-clinical safety studies on pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals, industrial chemicals, food and cosmetics meet GLP requirements to the standards necessary for regulatory purposes. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Risk-based inspection programme for good practice inspections While the MHRA has been incorporating elements of risk management into its inspection programme for a considerable time, the Agency’s commitment to the Hampton principles and the government agenda for Better Regulation has focused efforts in this area. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Medicines testing The MHRA's Medicines Testing Unit supports the MHRA commitment to safeguarding public health by sampling and testing selected medicinal products on or destined for the UK market. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Good Distribution Practice (GDP) Good Distribution Practice (GDP) is that part of quality assurance which ensures that products are consistently stored, transported and handled under suitable condition as required by the marketing authorisation (MA) or product specification. Go to the section on Good Distribution Practice Good Clinical Practice for Clinical Laboratories Good Clinical Practice is a set of internationally recognised ethical and scientific quality requirements which must be observed for designing, conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials that involve the participation of human subjects. Go to the section on Good Clinical Practice for Clinical Laboratories Good Pharmacovigilance Practice (GPvP) The MHRA Pharmacovigilance Inspectorate is part of the Inspections and Standards Division of the MHRA. It assesses pharmaceutical companies’ compliance with UK and EU legislation relating to the monitoring of the safety of medicines given to patients. Go to the section on Good Pharmacovigilance Practice British Pharmacopoeia UK pharmacopoeial activity is carried out within the Inspection and Standards Division of MHRA by the Pharmacopoeial Secretariat Group and the BP Laboratory Unit. Go to the section on the British Pharmacopoeia Inspection Action Group (IAG) The Inspection Action Group is a non-statutory, multi-disciplinary group constituted to advise the Director of Inspection, Enforcement and Standards Division on any recommendation for regulatory or adverse licensing action appropriate to the Division. 
file_351.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_256.txt|The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Winning the war against counterfeits This section provides information how we are combating counterfeit medicines The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Counterfeit medical devices The information on this page covers some of the questions you may have about counterfeit medical devices. How we are combating counterfeits Read our new strategy on how we plan to tackle this issue. 
file_732.txt|Monitoring and reporting on HS1 Monitoring and reporting on HS1 We monitor High Speed 1 (HS1) Limited's operational performance against the performance floor measures, set out in the concession agreement . In summary, these requirements are: a "three month performance floor" that means no more than 15% train services in the quarter are delayed that are wholly or mainly attributable to HS1 Limited; and an "annual performance floor" that means no more than 13% train services in the year are delayed due either reasons wholly or mainly attributable to HS1 Limited or that no more than 50% of unidentified incidents are wholly or mainly attributable to HS1 Limited. We monitor performance using reports and data submitted by HS1 Limited on a quarterly basis. We may also appoint consultants to complete an annual audit of the reliability and accuracy of HS1 Limited's asset management and performance data. Last updated - 10 April 2014 
file_447.txt|ORR's board meets around ten times a year (monthly except August and December). The minutes are approved at the next meeting and these form our corporate record. Our aim in publishing minutes is to be open and accountable, and to minimise the need for members of the public to request the information contained in our minutes. The minutes which are published on this website have had some passages or paragraphs removed by the board secretariat (this is called 'redaction'). These sections usually relate to: information which is intended for future publication; or information the disclosure of which is thought likely to prejudice the effective conduct   of ORR's affairs because it relates to uncompleted policy development; or information that we may not publish because it is commercially sensitive and we have received it in the course of our role as an economic regulator; or information relating to proposed or ongoing enforcement actions (eg a prosecution);  or information which is otherwise thought to be potentially sensitive. The minutes show where we have removed text. In a few places where the removal of text means that nothing sensible remains then a short explanatory text may be added to help you to understand what was discussed. This text appears in red italics Read the latest minutes of the ORR board meetings: 
file_791.txt|Template documentation Template documentation This page is intended to be used as a quick reference for all ORR-issued template documentation relating to station and depot access, including access agreements, access conditions, annexes, amending documents and amending agreements. New agreements 
file_18.txt|Closing a scheme Does your existing scheme qualify? If you want to continue using your existing pension scheme you need to check that it meets the qualifying criteria. If it does qualify, you can carry on using it as normal for existing scheme members. If you want to use it to automatically enrol new members, it will need to meet some additional criteria. If you don’t have an existing pension scheme that you can use, you’ll need to choose a new one. Go to finding a provider. On this page Detailed guidance Key points Use our tool to assess whether your existing defined contribution (DC) scheme qualifies and if you can use it for automatic enrolment. If you have a defined benefit (DB) or hybrid scheme, speak to the scheme trustees. DC qualifying scheme tool You need to check whether your existing DC scheme qualifies and if you can use it for automatic enrolment. Our DC qualifying schemes tool will guide you through the areas you need to look at to make an informed decision. Because every scheme is different, the tool is unable to tell you whether your particular scheme meets the criteria. You will need to work out whether you can use your scheme. If you don’t feel confident about deciding whether your scheme meets the criteria, you should ask the trustees or scheme provider running it. Back to top DB and hybrid schemes Qualifying criteria for DB and hybrid schemes are complex. Speak to your trustees to check whether your scheme qualifies. 
file_749.txt|Track access process Track access process This section explains how to apply for track access, and contains links to our current applications and decisions. How to apply for track access This section contains all the links related to access guidance in applying for track access. 
file_863.txt|For government For government Advice to Ministers in relation to the periodic review 2013 and the periodic review 2008 is available below. Advice to Ministers on the periodic review 2013 (PR13) On 15 March 2012, we wrote separately to the Scottish Ministers and the Secretary of State for Transport with our advice on Network Rail's costs and outputs for control period 5 ('CP5'), which runs from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019. 15 Mar 2012 We set out our decisions on Network Rail’s proposals, included in its Strategic Business Plan, for approval of funding for certain ‘early start’ work for control period 4 (CP4). 15 Feb 2008 Advice to Ministers in relation to the periodic review 2008. 1 Feb 2007 
file_301.txt|Reports and data release history This page shows when reports and data were released through the National Rail Trends portal. Average Age of Rolling Stock - Chart Average Age of Rolling Stock by TOC - table Average Age of Rolling Stock by sector - table Government Support to the rail industry - chart Government Support to the rail industry - table Data Cancellation and Significant Lateness (CaSL) Distance covered by all trains (km) Distance covered by freight trains (km) Freight Moved - Other Freight Moved - Total excluding infrastructure Freight Moved - domestic intermodial Freight Performance Measure (moving annual average) Freight moved - Coal Freight moved - Oil and petroleum Length of route open for freight traffic Length of route open for passengers and freight traffic Length of route that is electrified (km) Number of freight train movements Number of passenger stations Number of passenger trains planned Number of trains cancelled Passenger trains cancelled or significantly late (moving annual average) Percentage of passengers in excess of capacity (AM Peak) Percentage of passengers in excess of capacity (PM Peak) Percentage of passengers in excess of capacity (Total) Planned temporary speed restrictions due to Earthworks Planned temporary speed restrictions due to safety Planned temporary speed restrictions due to structures Planned temporary speed restrictions due to track Possession Disruption Index - Freight (moving annual average) Possession Disruption Index - Freight (score) Possession Disruption Index - Freight (target) Possession Disruption Index - Passenger (moving annual average) Possession Disruption Index - Passenger (score) Possession Disruption Index - Passenger (target) Private investment in Rolling Stock Private investment in Stations Private investment in Track and Signalling Private investment in other areas Public Performance Measure Public Performance Measure (moving annual average) Revenue support grants - Central government grants Revenue support grants - Direct rail support Revenue support grants - Freight grants Revenue support grants - Other elements of government support Revenue support grants - Passenger Transport Executive (PTE) grants Revenue support grants - Total government support Revenue support grants - Total government support, excluding PTE grants Risk attributed to SPADs Risk attributed to infrastructure failures Risk attributed to irregular working Risk attributed to objects on the line Risk attributed to public behaviour at level crossings Risk attributed to trains & rolling stock Total amount of private investment Total length of route (km) Total planned and unplanned temporary speed restrictions Total planned temporary speed restrictions Total unplanned temporary speed restrictions Unplanned temporary speed restrictions due to earthworks Unplanned temporary speed restrictions due to rolling contact fatigue Unplanned temporary speed restrictions due to safety Unplanned temporary speed restrictions due to structures Unplanned temporary speed restrictions due to track 2 June 2011 Number of calls not answered - engaged Number of calls not answered - ringtone Number of times PDA Enquiries used Number of times Text My Journey used Number of times Train Tracker Telephone used Number of times Train Tracker Text used Percentage of calls answered Percentage of calls not answered - engaged Percentage of calls not answered - ringtone Percentage of complaints handling complaints Percentage of fares, retailing and refund complaints Percentage of information at stations and on trains related complaints Percentage of other complaints Percentage of quality of train related complaints Percentage of staff conduct and availability related complaints Percentage of station quality related complaints Percentage of train service performance related complaints The number of separate times National Rail Enquiry Service webpages viewed The number of times the National Rail Enquiry Service website is visited Total number of calls Average Age of Rolling Stock - by TOC Average Age of Rolling Stock - by sector 28 July 2011 Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter - table Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter- chart Timetabled Train Kilometres by year and TOC Timetabled Train Kilometres by year- table 4 August 2011 Percentage of Fares, Retailing and Refund Complaints by TOC Percentage of complaint handling related complaints by TOC Percentage of information at station and on train related complaints by TOC Percentage of other complaints by TOC Percentage of staff conduct and availability related complaints by TOC Percentage of station quality related complaints by TOC Percentage of train quality related complaints by TOC Percentage of train service performance related complaints by TOC 13 September 2011 Ballast renewed full ballast renewal by excavation - Table Ballast renewed partial reballast-automatic ballast cleaning - Table Ballast renewed scarify reballast-with steel sleeper relay - Table Bridge renewals and remediation - number by task category - Table Bridge renewals and remediation - square area deck replacement - Table Culvert renewals and remediation - number by task category - Table Earthworks remediation projects - works greater than £50000 - Table Good track geometry by operating route - Table Good track geometry by route classification - Table Isolated rail defects by operating route - Table Light maintenance depot stewardship measure average scores - Table Number of Level crossings renewed - Table Number of replacement bus service hours - Table Percentage of working timetable run by TOCs - Table Poor track geometry by route classification - Table Post possession temporary speed restrictions - table Rail renewed - Table Rolling contact fatigue in plain line classified as severe by operating route (yards) - Table Rolling contact fatigue in switches and crossing classified as heavy by operating route (number of components) - Table Signalling renewed - Table Sleepers renewed - all types - Table Sleepers renewed - concrete sleepers - Table Sleepers renewed - steel sleepers - Table Sleepers renewed - timber sleepers - Table Station stewardship measure by category - Category A - Table Station stewardship measure by category - Category B - Table Station stewardship measure by category - Category C - Table Station stewardship measure by category - Category D - Table Station stewardship measure by category - Category E - Table Station stewardship measure by category - Category F - Table Switches and Crossing abandonment - Table Switches and Crossing full renewals - Table Switches and Crossing partial renewals or reballasting - Table Telecom renewals - Operational telecoms - Table Telecom renewals - Station information and surveillance systems - Table Track geometry faults per 100 km by operating routes - Table Track geometry faults per 100 km by route classification - Table Criminal Damage (Malicious Acts) - Chart Criminal Damage (Malicious Acts) - Table Infrastructure Wrong Side Failure - Chart Infrastructure Wrong Side Failure - Table Irregular Working - Chart Signals Passed At Danger Category A - Chart Signals Passed At Danger Category A - Table Data Cancellation and Significant Lateness (CaSL) Number of trains cancelled Passenger trains cancelled or significantly late (moving annual average) Public Performance Measure Public Performance Measure (moving annual average) Freight Perfomance Measure Freight Performance Measure (moving annual average) 6 October 2011 Appeals opened by Passenger Focus or London Travel Watch - table Complaints Rate - chart Complaints answered within 20 working days - table Complaints by category - table Complaints by category and toc - table Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch National Rail Enquiry Services (Telephone and self-service channels) - table National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone calls versus all other channels) - chart National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - chart National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - table 10 October 2011 Train mileage for freight operators (millions) - Table Train mileage for passenger operators (millions) - Table Million Gross Tonne Miles by freight operators- Table National Temporary Speed Restrictions - Table National planned temporary speed restrictions - Table National unplanned temporary speed restrictions - Table Number of broken rails by operating route - Table Number of broken rails by route classification - Table Number of signalling failures by operating route - Table Level crossing condition index by operating route - Table Earthworks remediation projects - number by task category - Table Electrification failures- conductor rail by operating route - Table Electrification failures- overhead line by operating route - Table Continuous rail defects by operating route - Table Ballast renewed all types - Table Retaining walls renewals and remediation - number by task category - Table 11 November 2011 SPADs on NR controlled infrastructure - chart SPADs on NR controlled infrastructure - table 24 November 2011 Average Age of Rolling Stock by TOC - table Average Age of Rolling Stock by sector - table Average age of rolling stock - Chart Freight Performance Measure - Chart Public Performance Measure (maa) by sector - chart Public Performance Measure by TOC - chart Public Performance Measure by TOC - table Public Performance Measure by sector - table 7 December 2011 Reports NR Monitor – Key Statistics (GB or England and Wales), Period 7 2010-11 – Period 7 2011-12 (source, Network Rail) NR Monitor – Key Statistics (Scotland)Period 7 2010-11 – Period 7 2011-12 (source, Network Rail) NR Monitor – Key Statistics (Summary),Period 7 2010-11 – Period 7  (source, Network Rail) 8 December 2011 Passenger KM by sector- chart Passenger Revenue by sector - table Passenger Revenue by ticket type - table Passenger journeys by sector - chart Passenger journeys by sector - table Passenger journeys by ticket type - table Passenger km by sector - table Passenger km by ticket type - table Private Investment in Railways - table Revenue per passenger km and per passenger journey (2011-12,Q2) 15 December 2011 Appeals opened by Passenger Focus or London Travel Watch (2011-12,Q2) Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch (2011-12,Q2) Complaints Rate - chart (2011-12,Q2) Complaints Rate by TOC (2011-12,Q2) Complaints answered within 20 working days - table (2011-12,Q2) Complaints by category - table (2011-12,Q2) Complaints by category and toc - table (2011-12,Q2) National Rail Enquiry Services (Telephone and self-service channels) - table (2011-12,Q2) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone calls versus all other channels) - chart (2011-12,Q2) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - chart (2011-12,Q2) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - table (2011-12,Q2) 12 January 2012 Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter - table Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter- chart 17 January 2012 Passengers in Excess of Capacity, LSE by TOC, (2008-10) (Source, Dft and TfL) Passenger in Excess of Capacity, LSE by Station (2010) (Source, Dft, and TfL) Passenger in Excess of Capacity, Regional by Station (2010) (Source DfT and TfL) 9  February 2012 SPADs on NR controlled infrastructure - chart  (2011-12 Q3) (Source, RSSB) SPADs on NR controlled infrastructure - table  (2011-12 Q3) (Source, RSSB) 15 February 2012 NR Monitor - Key Statistics (GB or England/Wales), (2010/11 P10 - 2011/12 P10) (Source NR) NR Monitor - Key Statistics (Scotland), (2010/11 P10 - 2011/12 P10) (Source NR) NR Monitor - Key Statistics (Summary), (2010/11 P10 - 2011/12 P10) (Source NR) 23 February 2012 Average Age of Rolling Stock by TOC - table (2011-12 Q3) (Source, DfT) Average Age of Rolling Stock by sector - table (2011-12 Q3) (Source, DfT) Average age of rolling stock - Chart (2011-12 Q3) (Source, DfT) Freight Performance Measure - Chart (2011-12 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Freight Performance Measure - Table (2011-12 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure (maa) by sector - chart (2011-12 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure by TOC - chart (2011-12 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure by TOC - table (2011-12 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure by sector - table (2011-12 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) 1st March 2012 Passenger KM by sector- chart (2011-12,Q3) Passenger Revenue by sector - table (2011-12,Q3) Passenger Revenue by ticket type - table (2011-12,Q3) Passenger journeys by sector - chart (2011-12,Q3) Passenger journeys by sector - table (2011-12,Q3) Passenger journeys by ticket type - table (2011-12,Q3) Passenger km by sector - table (2011-12,Q3) Passenger km by ticket type - table (2011-12,Q3) Revenue per passenger km and per passenger journey (2011-12,Q3) 15th March 2012 Freight lifted - table (2011-12 Q3) Freight lifted (annual) - chart (2011-12, Q3) Freight lifted (quarterly) - chart (2011-12, Q3) Freight lifted (quartlery) - table (2011-12, Q3) Freight moved (annual) - chart (2011-12, Q3) Freight moved (quarterly) - chart (2011-12, Q3) Freight moved - table (2011-12, Q3) Immediate action isolated defects per 100km identified during the year by route classification and operating route - table Poor track geometry - table (2010-11) Private Investment in Railways - table (2011-12, Q3) Retaining wall renewed sq m - table (2010-11) Rolling contact fatigue in plain line classified as heavy by operating route (yards) - table (2010-11) 22nd March 2012 Complaints answered within 20 working days - table (2011-12, Q3) Complaints by category - table (2011-12, Q3) Complaints by category and toc - table (2011-12, Q3) Complaints Rate - chart (2011-12, Q3) Complaints Rate - table (2011-12, Q3) Complaints Rate by TOC (2011-12, Q3) National Rail Enquiry Services (Telephone and self-service channels) - table (2011-12, Q3) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone calls versus all other channels) - chart (2011-12, Q3) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - chart (2011-12, Q3) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - table (2011-12, Q3) 29th March 2012 Gauge capability (km of route in each gauge band) by route (2010-11) Signalling asset condition (SICA) by operating route (2010-11) Appeals opened by Passenger Focus or London Travel Watch - table (2011-12 Q3) Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch (2011-12,Q3) 26th April 2012 Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter - table (2011-12 Q4) Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter- chart (2011-12 Q4) Timetabled Train Kilometres by year and TOC Timetabled Train Kilometres by year- table 17th May 2012 SPADs on NR controlled infrastructure - chart SPADs on NR controlled infrastructure - table 23rd May 2012 Electrification capability by route - Table Linespeed capability by operating route (track kms in each speed band) Network capability measures Route availability for structures - Table 24th May 2012 Average age of rolling stock - Chart Average age of rolling stock by sector - Table Average age of rolling stock by TOC - Table Freight Performance Measure - Chart Public Performance Measure (MAA) by sector - Chart Public Performance Measure by sector - Table Public Performance Measure by TOC - Chart Public Performance Measure by TOC - Table 31st May 2012 TOC complaints by category and contact method by period 7th June 2012 Freight lifted - table (2011-12 Q4) Freight lifted (annual) - chart (2011-12, Q4) Freight lifted (quarterly) - chart (2011-12, Q4) Freight moved - table (2011-12, Q4) Freight moved (annual) - chart (2011-12, Q4) Freight moved (quarterly) - chart (2011-12, Q4) NR Monitor - Key Statistics (GB or England/Wales), (2010/11 P13 - 2011/12 P13) NR Monitor - Key Statistics (Scotland), (2010/11 P13 - 2011/12 P13) NR Monitor - Key Statistics (Summary), (2010/11 P13 - 2011/12 P13) NR Monitor - Key_Statistics_(GB or England_and_Wales)_Infrastructure_Assets, (2010/11 P13 - 2011/12 P13) NR Monitor - Key_Statistics_(Scotland)_Infrastructure_Assets, (2010/11 P13 - 2011/12 P13) 14th June 2012 Passenger KM by sector- chart Passenger Revenue by sector - table Passenger Revenue by ticket type - table Passenger journeys by sector - chart Passenger journeys by sector - table Passenger journeys by ticket type - table Passenger km by sector - table Passenger km by ticket type - table Private Investment in Railways - chart Private Investment in Railways - table Revenue per passenger km and per passenger journey 21th June 2012 Appeals opened by Passenger Focus or London Travel Watch - table Complaints by category - table Complaints by category and TOC - table Complaints rate - chart Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch National Rail Enquiry Services (Telephone and self-service channels) - table National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone calls versus all other channels) - chart National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - chart National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - table 10th July 2012 Trains arriving early or within one minute of scheduled arrival time - chart Trains arriving early or within one minute of scheduled arrival time - table 13th July 2012 Reports City centre peak and all day arrivals and departures by rail on a typical autumn weekday 2011 - table Passengers in excess of capacity (PiXC) - London and South East train operators annual from 2008 – table Peak crowding on a typical autumn weekday by city and train operator -2011 - table 26th July 2012 Freight market indicators (2011-2012) (Source: DfT) Timetabled train kilometres (Apr-Jun 2012 Q1) (Source: Deltarail) 9th August 2012 Signals Passed at Danger (SPADS) (April-June 2012, Q2) (Source: RSSB) 16th August 2012 Train Operating Company key statistics  (2011-2012) (Source: Network Rail, Train operating companies, DeltaRail and LENNON) 23rd August 2012 Government Support (2011-2012) (Source: Department for Transport, Transport Scotland and Welsh Assembly) Annual Safety Reports (2011-2012) (Source: Rail Safety and Standards Board and London Underground) 30th August 2012 Average Age of Rolling Stock by (2012-13 Q1) (Source, DfT) Freight Performance Measure  (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure  (2012-13 Q1) (Source, Network Rail) 5th September 2012 Network Rail Monitor Key Statistics (2012-13 Q1) (Source, Network Rail) 6th September 2012 Public Performance Measure (1997-8 to 2012-13 Q1) (Source, Network Rail) 12th September 2012 Rail usage (Passenger KM's, journeys and  revenue) (2012-13 Q1) (Source, LENNON) 20th September 2012 Freight lifted - table (2012-13 Q1) (source, Freight Operating Companies) Freight lifted - chart (2012-13, Q1) (source, Freight Operating Companies) Freight moved - table (2012-13, Q1) (Source, Network Rail) Freight moved - chart (2012-13, Q1) (Source, Network Rail) Private Investment in Railways - chart (2012-13, Q1) (Source, Office of National Statistics) Private Investment in Railways - table (2012-13, Q1) (Source, Office of National Statistics) 4th October 2012 Appeals opened by Passenger Focus or London Travel Watch - table (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC, PF, LTW, TOCs) Complaints answered within 20 working days - table (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC, PF, LTW, TOCs) Complaints by category - table (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC, PF, LTW, TOCs) Complaints by category and toc - table (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC, PF, LTW, TOCs) Complaints Rate - chart (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC, PF, LTW, TOCs) Complaints Rate - table (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC, PF, LTW, TOCs) Complaints Rate by TOC (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC, PF, LTW, TOCs) Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC, PF, LTW, TOCs) 10th October 2012 Light maintenance depot stewardship measure average scores - Table (Source, Network Rail) Network capability measures (Source, Network Rail) Station stewardship measure by category - Category A - Table (Source, Network Rail) Station stewardship measure by category - Category B - Table (Source, Network Rail) Station stewardship measure by category - Category C - Table (Source, Network Rail) Station stewardship measure by category - Category D - Table (Source, Network Rail) Station stewardship measure by category - Category E - Table (Source, Network Rail) Station stewardship measure by category - Category F - Table (Source, Network Rail) 11th October 2012 National Rail Enquiry Services (Telephone and self-service channels) - table  (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone calls versus all other channels) - chart (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - chart (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - table (2012-13, Q1) (Source, ATOC) Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source, DeltaRail) Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter- chart (2012-13, Q2) (Source, DeltaRail) 8th November 2012 Signals Passed at Danger (SPADS) (July-September 2012, Q2) (Source: RSSB Late and very late possession changes (Source, Network Rail National Planned Temporary Speed Restrictions - Table (Source, Network Rail) National Temporary Speed Restrictions - Table (Source, Network Rail) National Unplanned Temporary Speed Restrictions - Table (Source, Network Rail) Possession notification discount factors (Source, Network Rail) Seven day railway project benefits by operating route - Table (Source, Network Rail) Seven day railway project benefits by scheme - Table (Source, Network Rail) 22nd November 2012 Public Performance Measure (PPM) (2012-13, Q2) (source, Network Rail) Freight Performance Measure (FPM) (2012-13, Q2) (source, Network Rail) Average Age of Rolling Stock (2012-13, Q2) (DfT Earthwork_failures (Source, Network Rail) Good track geometry by operating route - Table (Source, Network Rail) Good track geometry by route classification - Table (Source, Network Rail) Isolated rail defects by operating route - Table (Source, Network Rail) Number of broken rails by operating route - Table (Source, Network Rail) Poor track geometry by route classification - Table  (Source, Network Rail) Poor track geometry by operating route (Source, Network Rail) Rolling contact fatigue in switches and crossing classified as Heavy by operating route (number of components) - Table (Source, Network Rail) Rolling contact fatigue in switches and crossing classified as Severe by operating route (number of components) - Table (Source, Network Rail) Route availability for structures – Table (Source, Network Rail) Signalling asset condition (SICA) by operating route - Table (Source, Network Rail) Track geometry faults per 100 km by operating routes – Table (Source, Network Rail) Track geometry faults per 100 km by route classification – Table (Source, Network Rail) 6th December 2012 Rail usage (Passenger KM's, journeys and  revenue) (2012-13 Q2) (Source, LENNON) Freight lifted - table (2012-13 Q2) (source, Freight Operating Companies) Freight lifted - chart (2012-13, Q2) (source, Freight Operating Companies) Freight moved - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source, Network Rail) Freight moved - chart (2012-13, Q2) (Source, Network Rail) Private Investment in Railways - chart (2012-13, Q2) (Source, Office of National Statistics) Private Investment in Railways - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source, Office of National Statistics) 13th December 2012 Appeals opened by Passenger Focus or London Travel Watch - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) Complaints answered within 20 working days - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) Complaints by category - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source, Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) Complaints by category and toc - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) Complaints Rate - chart (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) Complaints Rate - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) Complaints Rate by TOC (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) National Rail Enquiry Services (Telephone and self-service channels) - table  (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone calls versus all other channels) - chart (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - chart (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies) National Rail Enquiry Services (telephone enquiries received) - table (2012-13, Q2) (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies) 10th January 2013 Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter - table (2012-13, Q3) (Source, DeltaRail) Timetabled Train Kilometres by quarter- chart (2012-13, Q3) (Source, DeltaRail) 14th February 2013 Network Rail Monitor Key Statistics (2012-13 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Signals Passed at Danger (SPADS) (October-December 2012, Q3) (Source: RSSB) 28th February 2013 Average Age of Rolling Stock by TOC - table (2012-13 Q3) (Source, DfT) Average Age of Rolling Stock by sector - table (2012-13 Q3) (Source, DfT) Average age of rolling stock - Chart (2012-13 Q3) (Source, DfT) Freight Performance Measure - Chart (2012-13 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Freight Performance Measure - Table (2012-13 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure (maa) by sector - chart (2012-13 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure by sector - table (2012-13 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure by TOC - chart (2012-13 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure by TOC - table (2012-13 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) 21st March 2013 Freight Lifted (2012-13 Q3) (Source, Freight Operating Companies) Freight Moved (2012-13 Q3) (Source: Network Rail) Private Investment in the Rail Industry (2012-13 Q3) (Source: Office of National Statistics) 28th March 2013 Complaints data (2012-13 Q3) (Source: ATOC, TOCs, LTW, PF) National rail enquiries service (2012-13 Q3) (Source: ATOC) 25th April 2013 Timetabled Train Kilometres (2012-13, Q4) (Source, DeltaRail) 16th May 2013 Signals Passed at Danger (SPADS) (January – March 2012-13, Q4) (Source: RSSB) 23rd May 2013 Average Age of Rolling Stock (2012-13 Q4) (Source, DfT) Freight Performance Measure (2012-13 Q4) (Source, Network Rail) Public Performance Measure (2012-13 Q4) (Source, Network Rail) 6th June 2013 Freight lifted (2013-14, Q1) (source, Freight Operating Companies) Freight moved (2013-14, Q1) (Source, Network Rail) Network Rail Monitor Key Statistics (2012-13 Q4) (Source, Network Rail) 13th June 2013 Rail usage (2012-13 Q4) (Source, LENNON) Private Investment in Railways (2012-13, Q4) (Source, Office of National Statistics) 20th June 2013 Complaints data (2012-13 Q4) (Source: ATOC and TOCs) National rail enquiries service (2012-13 Q4) (Source: ATOC) 25th July 2013 Freight market indicators (2012-2013) (Source: DfT) 1st August 2013 Regional Usage (2011-2012) (Source: Steer Davies Gleaves, DeltaRail) 15th August 2013 Infrastructure (2012-2013) (Source: Network Rail) Train Operating Company key statistics (2012-2013) (Source: Network Rail, Train operating companies, DeltaRail and LENNON) Signals Passed at Danger (SPADS) (April-June 2013, Q1) (Source: RSSB) 22nd August 2013 Government Support (2012-2013) (Source: Department for Transport, Transport Scotland and Welsh Assembly) 5th September 2013 Passenger & freight rail performance Q1 statistical release - PPM, CaSL, FPM (Source: Network Rail) Network Rail Monitor Key Statistics (2013-14 Q1) (Source, Network Rail) 12th September 2013 Safety (excluding SPAD's) (Source: RSSB, LUL, ORR) 19th September 2013 Passenger rail usage statistical release Q1 - TTKM, Passenger KM, journeys, revenue (Source: DeltaRail, LENNON, TOCs) 3rd October 2013 Freight rail usage Q1- freight moved, freight lifted, normalised freight delay (Source: FOCs,Network Rail) 17th October 2013 Passenger rail service satisfaction Q1 - Complaints, appeals and National Rail Enquiries (NRE) telephone service. (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) 24th October 2013 Sustainable development. (Source: Train operating companies, Freight operating companies, Network Rail, Eurostar) 14th November 2013 Passenger & freight rail performance Q2 statistical release - PPM, CaSL, FPM (Source: Network Rail) Signals Passed at Danger (SPADS) (Jul-Sep 2013, Q2) (Source: RSSB) 28th November 2013 Passenger rail usage statistical release Q2 - TTKM, Passenger KM, journeys, revenue (Source: DeltaRail, LENNON, TOCs) Network Rail Monitor Key Statistics (2013-14 Q2) (Source, Network Rail) Schedule 4 and Schedule 8 Costs and Income 2012-13 (Source: Network Rail) 12th December 2013 Freight rail usage Q2- freight moved, freight lifted, normalised freight delay (Source: FOCs,Network Rail) 19th December 2013 Passenger rail service satisfaction Q2 - Complaints, appeals and National Rail Enquiries (NRE) telephone service. (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies) 6th February 2014 Passenger & freight rail performance Q3 statistical release - PPM, CaSL, FPM (Source: Network Rail) 13th February 2014 Signals Passed at Danger (SPADS) (Oct-Dec2013, Q3) (Source: RSSB) 20th February 2014 Passenger rail usage statistical release Q3 - TTKM, Passenger KM, journeys, revenue (Source: DeltaRail, LENNON, TOCs) 5th March 2014 Network Rail Monitor Key Statistics (2013-14 Q3) (Source, Network Rail) 6th March 2014 Freight rail usage Q3- freight moved, freight lifted, normalised freight delay (Source: FOCs,Network Rail) 20th March 2014 Passenger rail service satisfaction Q2 - Complaints, appeals and National Rail Enquiries (NRE) telephone service. (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, Passenger Focus, London Travel Watch, Train Operating Companies 3rd April 2014 Safety (excluding SPAD's) (Source: RSSB, LUL, ORR) 24th April 2014 Regional Usage (2012-2013) (Source: Steer Davies Gleaves, DeltaRail) 8th May 2014 Passenger & freight rail performance Q4 statistical release - PPM, CaSL, FPM (Source: Network Rail) Signals Passed at Danger (SPADS) (Jan-Mar2014, Q4) (Source: RSSB) 22nd May 2014 Freight rail usage Q4- freight moved, freight lifted, normalised freight delay (Source: FOCs,Network Rail) 5th June 2014 Passenger rail usage statistical release 2013-14 Q4 - TTKM, Passenger KM, journeys, revenue (Source: DeltaRail, LENNON, TOCs) 19th June 2014 Passenger rail service satisfaction 2013-14 Q4 - Complaints, appeals and National Rail Enquiries (NRE) telephone service. (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, TOCs) 26th June 2014 Network Rail Monitor Key Statistics (2013-14 Q4) (Source: Network Rail) Occupational Health Data (2013-14)(Source :RSSB,LUL,ORR) 21st August Rail finance statistical release 2013-14 - Fares, government support, private investment (Source: Department for Transport, Transport Scotland, Welsh Assembly, Office of National Statistics, LENNON) 4th Sept 2014 Signal Passed At Danger (SPADs) Apr-Jun 2014 (Source: RSSB) Freight delivery metric (FDM) 2014-15Q1 (Source:Network Rail) Passenger & freight rail performance 2014-15Q1 statistical release - PPM, CaSL, FPM (Source: Network Rail) 18th Sept 2014 Train Operating Company key statistics (2013-2014) (Source: Network Rail, Train operating companies, DeltaRail and LENNON) Freight rail usage Q1 - freight moved, freight lifted, normalised freight delay (Source: FOCs,Network Rail) 25th Sept 2014 Network Rail Outputs and indicators - Key Statistics (2014-15 Q1) (Source: Network Rail) Saftey statistical release 2013-14 (Source: RSSB, LUL and ORR) 2nd Oct 2014 Passenger rail usage statistical release 2014-15Q1 - TTKM, Passenger KM, journeys, revenue (Source: DeltaRail, LENNON, TOCs) 16th October 2014 Passenger rail service satisfaction statistical release 2013-14 Q4 - Complaints, appeals and National Rail Enquiries (NRE) telephone service. (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, TOCs) 23rd October 2014 Rail infrastructure, assets and environmental statistical release 2013/14. (Source: DfT,NR, TOCs) 13th November 2014 Signal Passed At Danger (SPADs) July-Sept 2014 (Source: RSSB) Passenger & freight rail performance 2014-15Q2 statistical release - PPM, CaSL, FDM,FPM (Source: Network Rail 20th November 2014 Network Rail Outputs and indicators - Key Statistics (2014-15 Q2) (Source: Network Rail) 27th November 2014 Freight rail usage 2014-15 Q2 - freight moved, freight lifted, normalised freight delay (Source: FOCs,Network Rail) 11th December 2014 Passenger rail usage statistical release 2014-15Q2 - TTKM, Passenger KM, journeys, revenue (Source: DeltaRail, LENNON, TOCs) 18th December 2014 Passenger rail service satisfaction statistical release 2014-15 Q2 - Complaints, appeals and National Rail Enquiries (NRE) telephone service. (Source: Association of Train Operating Companies, TOCs) Latest reports 
file_91.txt|Independent trustee register Winding up your DB scheme If wind up is triggered and not deferred, you must wind up your defined benefit pension scheme efficiently and effectively, and ensure that at least the main tasks are completed within 2 years. On this page Key points Notify us that that your defined benefit (DB) scheme has begun winding up. Submit a winding-up report if your scheme has not fully wound up 2 years after it was triggered. Put a project plan in place to help you plan effectively and complete at least the key wind-up activities within 2 years of starting the process. Triggering wind up for your scheme You and the employer may decide to wind up the scheme for a number of reasons. For example, if you and the employer are unable to put an adequate funding solution in place you should consider whether you and/or the employer have the power to wind up the scheme and if this is the most appropriate step, or how the scheme’s interests in the employer can otherwise be protected or realised. You should also be aware when compulsory winding up of the scheme can otherwise be triggered, eg the scheme rules may require the scheme to be wound up if no participating employer remains or we may use our powers to direct you to do so. Back to top Notifying the regulator If your scheme begins to wind up, you must notify us. You can do this using our online service Exchange . If the scheme has not fully wound up 2 years after wind-up was triggered, you must submit a winding-up report. You can submit the report using Exchange. Key wind-up activities The key activities you should complete when winding up your DB scheme are: calculating whether there is a debt on the employer (under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995 (“section 75”)) and serving that debt if so securing pensioner benefits identifying the remaining non-pensioners’ share of assets and obtaining terms from an insurer to secure those deferred benefits issuing option letters to non-pensioners and then details of insured benefits conducting a final actuarial valuation obtaining final audited accounts. You should complete at least the key activities within 2 years of starting the wind-up process. You should create a project plan to help you meet this timeframe. To avoid unreasonable delays you should adopt a pragmatic and proportionate approach. However, you still need to work in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed and rules, your fiduciary duties and other legal requirements. Back to top Section 75 debts One of the consequences of triggering wind-up is that a section 75 debt may become due from the employer(s) if the scheme has a funding shortfall. The debt is generally equivalent to the amount that it will cost the scheme to buy annuities to secure members’ benefits in full. After a scheme begins winding up, you need to ensure that section 75 debts are calculated and collected from the employer. Back to top Pension Protection Fund (PPF) entry If your employer is insolvent and your DB scheme is underfunded, you may need to consider applying for entry to the PPF. You’ll need to take the scheme through the PPF assessment period. For more information, go to the PPF information for scheme trustees . Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit Learn about winding up in the ‘DB scheme, solvent employer: wind-up or buy-out’ module, the 'DB scheme, solvent employer: buy-in or partial buy-out' module or the ‘DB scheme, insolvent employer: wind-up or transfer to PPF’ module. You must log in or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
file_607.txt|Working together Working together - managers, employees and HR This page provides summary guidance on how managers, employees, and human resource professionals should work together to prevent work related stress, with links to additional resources to support each role. The HSE management standards approach requires managers and employees to work together to improve six main areas of work (demands, control, support, relationships, role, and change) that, if managed properly, can help to reduce work-related stress. There are other toolkits which take a similar approach to identifying the underlying causes of work stress at an organisational level, which rail employers might choose to use. What should managers be doing? Our experience has shown that strong visible commitment from managers, both at board level and by line managers, is vital to successful implementation of preventive approaches to stress, such as the management standards. Line managers can play a pivotal role in proactively managing workplace stress, as they: are likely to see first-hand the problems which cause stress in their teams; influence job design and work allocation; are often the first point of contact for an individual feeling stressed; and provide a vital communication link between senior managers and their team. Applying a preventive approach such as the management standards is about making stress management an integral part of the wider management role, and about continuous improvement. Managers are not expected to provide specialist counseling support, and do not need to devote an unrealistic amount of time to stress management, but small changes in the way the work is done and in management behaviours can really make a big difference. RSSB's Health and Wellbeing Assessment Resource includes filmed good practice case studies on health risk assessment, including a practical example of managing stress within ORR. Recognising and developing the positive skills and behaviours to manage their staff in ways that minimise work-related stress is important for managers. The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) has developed with HSE a free online stress management tool which complements the management standards approach, and is designed to help equip managers with the skills to manage positively and prevent stress in their staff. The free tool, available on the CIPD/AXA PPP Employee health and wellbeing website , should help managers to understand how their behaviour impacts on the people they manage, and provides online learning materials to help them improve their management style. Working with employees Involving the workforce in identifying potential causes of work related stress, and critically in devising solutions, is central to the success of a preventive approach such as the management standards. We recognise the key role that employees can play in tackling work related stress at an organisational level and have produced an article pdf icon PDF, 221 Kb aimed specifically at employees' representatives . ORR's 2013 conference with rail trade unions on worker health explored how safety representatives could contribute to an organisational stress risk assessment, with a range of useful suggestions captured in a workshop presentation pdf icon PDF, 319 Kb . What role for HR? HR professionals often have an active, visible role in dealing with individual cases of work related stress, working with line managers and occupational health staff; managing attendance and referral records; and as custodians of many of the associated policies and procedures. The important contribution that HR staff can make to preventing work related stress is perhaps less well recognised. Much of the HR data already collected can be used to help identify potential high risk areas for stress; and stress risk assessments can help to inform improvements to existing data collection and HR procedures. HR directors are well placed to champion the management standards approach at board level and drive change. A focus on preventing work related stress can have real benefits across the HR function, helping to inform and ultimately control sickness absence, staff turnover, return to work interviews, and retention and recruitment. Further guidance on the role HR professionals can play in stress management can be found on HSE's website . Practical support for employers, including HR professionals, is available via business support networks including for example Time to Change and Mindful Employer . Last updated - 23 June 2014 
file_553.txt|Rail vehicle accessibility An outline of the rail accessibility legislation enforced by us. The Rail Vehicle Accessibility (Non-Interoperable Rail System) Regulations 2010 (RVAR 2010) set out the accessibility standards to which new non-mainline (and older rail vehicles as and when they are refurbished) must comply. We enforce these Regulations and the requirements in the Persons of Reduced Mobility Technical Specification for Interoperability (PRM TSI) which cover heavy rail. Rolling stock covered by RVAR 2010 or the PRM TSI has to provide a number of features that make it easier to use such as handholds, passenger information displays, priority seats and provision for wheelchairs. The PRM TSI also sets accessibility standards for new stations or for stations where major work takes place. Rail vehicle accessibility legislation is complex but as a general summary: mainline trains built from 1999 to 2009 have to comply with standards created through earlier legislation (the Rail Vehicle Accessibility Regulations 1998 - replaced by RVAR 2010) unless exemptions have been granted by the Department for Transport (DfT); mainline trains built from 2010 onwards have to comply with the PRM TSI; non-mainline rail vehicles (such as London Underground trains, trams and some heritage railways) are covered by RVAR 2010; rail vehicles built before 1999 do not at present need to comply with any accessibility legislation although operators may choose to make improvements for the benefit of their passengers. DfT sets the overall policy on accessibility across all transport modes, including the target for all rail vehicles – both heavy and light rail – to be accessible by no later than 1 January 2020 (unless appropriate exemptions are in place). ORR enforces the requirements of RVAR 2010 and the PRM TSI. We do so in line with the principles established in our enforcement policy statement and in response to potential breaches of the legislation as raised by passengers and others. Last updated - 22 September 2014 
file_181.txt|Adobe text conversion tools Welcome to the 'Help' section. This section aims to help make your visit to the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) website as easy and informative as possible. We have designed our site to be as user-friendly and as easy to read as possible. However, if you have any problems using our site, please use our Website Technical Feedback form . Navigating the site The sections on the MHRA site are colour coded with all the pages in the section being the same colour. The home page and  “About us” is blue; pages in the "Safety information” section are yellow; pages in the "News Centre" are in burgundy; and pages in the other sections "How we regulate", "Committees", "Conferences & Learning Centre", “Online services”, “Publications” and "Your views" are similarly colour coded. The links to these sections appear at the top of every page. Once you enter the different sections of the MHRA site you will notice links at the left-hand side of the pages; these are links to the subsections of the section/page. You will always know where you are in the site by looking at the breadcrumb trails on every page: Home: > Search & Help > Help. You can click on the breadcrumb trail to go back to previous pages. Accessibility We have designed the site to be accessible, usable and attractive for all users. You can change the font size and colours using the instructions below. Some of our files are in PDF format, indicated by a PDF icon. If you have a visual impairment and use a screen reader, use Access Adobe to access these. Please see section below on ‘Accessing pdf files’ for further details. Useful information about services to make Acrobat documents more accessible is provided on Adobe's website. › Adobe accessibility (external link) Please note: all attachments to pages on this site in PDF, Word, Excel, PowerPoint or other formats will open in a new browser window. Accessibility statement Our commitment The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is committed to providing a website that is accessible to the widest possible audience, regardless of technology or ability. We are actively working to increase the accessibility and usability of our website and in doing so adhere to many of the available standards and guidelines. Guidelines and standards This website endeavours to conform to level Double-A of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 . These guidelines explain how to make web content more accessible for people with disabilities. Conformance with these guidelines will help make the web more user friendly for all people. We are aware that we have some way to go before we meet this target level of accessibility. We have had the website audited and we are currently working on many solutions that will put us closer to our goal. We hope to have these solutions in place by April 2011. In the meantime should you experience any difficulty in accessing the MHRA website, please don’t hesitate to contact us . Changing the size of text If you find the text on our website is difficult to read, you may want to make it bigger. To increase text size you need to change a setting on your Internet browser. Using Microsoft's Internet Explorer click: View > Text Size > ... You can then choose how large you would like the text to be. Using Netscape Browser, click View > Text Size and then choose to 'Increase Font' or 'Decrease Font'. The action is similar for all browsers on the market. Consult your browser's online 'Help' for further information. If your mouse has a scroll wheel, holding down the Ctrl key on your keyboard and using the scroll wheel may change the font size on some browsers. Changing the colours on the site You may also find it helpful to change the colour scheme. To do this in Internet Explorer: Click Tools at the top of your browser. A dropdown menu will appear. Select Internet Options... from the menu. Another box will appear. Click on the button marked Accessibility... in the bottom right of the box. A new box will appear. Click in the square next to Ignore colours specified on Web pages. When a tick appears in the box click OK to close the box. In the Internet Options box (which should still be open; if not, open it again from the Tools menu) click the Colours... button'. Another box will open. Uncheck the box marked Use Windows colours. Now click the rectangle to the right of Text and choose a text colour (e.g. yellow). Then click the rectangle to the right of Background and choose a background colour (e.g. black). Click OK to confirm your changes, and OK to close the Internet Options box. Browser compatibility The MHRA website has been tested against the most popular web browsers on the Microsoft Windows 2000, XP and Macintosh OS X operating systems. Our website should work on the majority of computers running a mainstream browser from the last few years. For best results however, we recommend that you use either Microsoft Internet Explorer 6, Netscape Browser8 or Mozilla Firefox 1.0.4 or above. Free downloads of the latest version of these browsers are available from the respective company websites. Note on Netscape 6: If you are using Netscape Browser 6 you may find that links to external sites and links to attached files (PDFs etc.) do not work. To access these links, please right click on the link and select “Open Link in New Window”. Scripting languages We have ensured that our pages are usable when scripts, applets, or other programmatic objects are turned off or not supported but to benefit from additional features we recommend that you use a JavaScript enabled web browser. Unless you have specifically disabled JavaScript your browser will usually allow these additional features. If your browser is not compliant or you have chosen to disable JavaScript then you can still access all parts of the site and view all content. Attachments and downloadable files The MHRA website contains a number of files and forms, which can be downloaded, usually in Microsoft Word (DOC) or Adobe PDF format, but sometimes in PowerPoint (PPT) or Excel (XLS) format. To view these files you will need the appropriate software on your computer. Please note: all attachments to pages on this site in PDF, Word, Excel, PowerPoint or other formats will open in a new browser window. When clicking on a link to an attachment your computer may appear not to respond. The computer has to wait until the document has downloaded before being able to display the document. If your connection to the internet is relatively slow and the document is large then this can take several minutes. To achieve reasonable download speeds we recommend that you connect to the Internet, as a minimum, via a 56kbs modem and ideally using a broadband connection. If you are experiencing trouble viewing an attached file try right clicking on the link to the file and selecting "save target as". You will then be asked to save the file to a location on your computer. This method will allow you see the progress of the download and it will display an estimate of how long the download is likely to take. In addition you will have a local copy of the file which can be viewed at leisure while the computer is offline. Accessing PDF files Some of the files on our site are in PDF format, which stands for Portable Document Format, indicated by  . PDF files allow you see a document in its original format with the original layout and design. To view PDF files you need to have a copy of Acrobat Reader on your computer, available free of charge from Adobe. To download Acrobat Reader click the following link which will open in a new window: › Download Adobe Reader (external link) Please note: all PDFs on this site will open in a new browser window. If you have a visual impairment you may find the text conversion tools on the Adobe website useful. To access these tools please click the following link which will open in a new window: › Online conversion tools for Adobe PDF documents (external link) Printing Some users may experience printing problems. To minimise these change your page orientation to ‘landscape’ through the ‘page set-up’ option on your file menu. Printing from the file menu, rather than the icon, may also help. Sometimes problems arise if you use Internet Explorer 5.5 service pack 1. This is no longer supported by Microsoft and you will need to upgrade to a newer version of Internet Explorer. External sites External sites are clearly marked throughout the site and will open in a new browser window. To get back to the MHRA site, simply close down the new window. We cannot guarantee that other organisations’ websites will be available.  If you experience persistent problems with an external link, please let us know using our Website Technical Feedback form . Page last modified: 		 		08 September 2005 
file_363.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_433.txt|
file_3.txt|I have read and accept the Privacy Statement* Please agree to the Privacy Statement. Privacy Statement By providing this information you agree to the Regulator collecting your personal information. Where personal data of third parties is provided by you, the Regulator assumes that you have obtained the required authority to supply this information unless you tell the Regulator otherwise. The Regulator is a data controller under the Data Protection Act 1998. We will hold and process your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in accordance with this Act. The Regulator may use your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied to comply with any of its statutory functions. For further information on how your information is used, how we maintain the security of your information, and your rights to access information we hold on you please see our fair      processing notice (PDF, 60kb, 6 pages) . 
file_766.txt|Other contract decisions Other contract decisions This page contains all other decisions made in the last six months. For older decisions, please see our decisions library or the National Archives . Date 
file_413.txt|Site map A - Z of HSE's website Use the A-Z to get straight to health and safety guidance on HSE's website. Select a letter below, for example, go to letter 'R' to find out about 'Risk assessment'. If you can't find what you are looking for, try the ' Search 'facility; visit the Guidance section. 
file_900.txt|Complaints data Complaints data We are responsible for the publication of national and official statistics on complaints. Until 2010, the Department for Transport (DfT) was responsible for collecting the data from each of the franchised train operating companies before supplying the information to us. Read further information on the transfer of responsibility and improvements to the complaints data . Current complaints data We require each train operator to regularly provide complaints data via a complaints pro-forma, which contains data on the volume and type of complaints, the speed of response and the method of complaint. The pro-forma helps to ensure we publish accurate and comparable statistics for all train operators. We publish a range of complaints data, including the overall complaints rate for Great Britain and the complaints rate for each train operator (rates are calculated per 100,000 journeys), the type of complaint customers are making and the train operator's performance at responding to customer complaints. Due to concerns over data quality, we no longer publish data on appeals opened or complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch. Data on the number of appeals resolved is published on Passenger Focus' website . The complaints data can be accessed on our Data Portal , with statistics made available by quarter and financial year. Complaints statistics should be interpreted with caution as the data are dependent on the train operator's medium of complaints. For example, if a train operator does a poster campaign with details on methods to complain, you might expect their rate of complaints to increase, yet their actual service level stays the same. Improvements to complaints data In 2011 we were asked to publish more disaggregated complaints data by the Prime Minister in his letter on transparency and open data (published 7 July 2011). From 1 April 2013 the current level 2 complaints categories were aligned with the National Rail Passenger Survey (NRPS) categories, helping to create a consistent industry-wide set of complaints categories which will allow users of the statistics to directly track complaints data with NRPS satisfaction scores. We consulted the train operating companies through a series of meetings to ensure their support for these changes and are continuing to work with them to improve the quality and comparability of the complaints data. The first set of quarterly complaints data under the NRPS categories were published in October 2013. We have produced a short presentation providing more information on the mapping of current ORR complaints to the NRPS categories pdf icon PDF, 427 Kb . Alongside this we have created a mapping document xls icon XLS, 44 Kb for train operators to use as a guide on how to map the complaints data from the lowest level of granularity to the NRPS categories. This will help to ensure that all train operators are recording their complaints on a consistent basis.For further information regarding complaints data or if you have any comments, please email 
file_70.txt|Register new schemes, check schemes meet the FCA’s rules and ensure contributions are paid. The Pensions Regulator and the FCA primarily share regulation of work-based personal pensions. We are working with employers, providers, managers and the FCA to meet our statutory objectives such as to protect members’ benefits. Setting up and running work-based personal pensions Make sure that you register new schemes with HM Revenue and Customs and The Pensions Regulator and that they meet certain legal and quality criteria. Go to setting up a scheme . If you set up and manage work-based personal pensions for clients, you should ensure that the schemes meet the FCA’s rules and regulations. You can find more information on the FCA website . If you manage work-based personal pensions you have a specific role to play in ensuring that contributions to the schemes are paid. For more information, go to maintaining contributions . Back to top Regulating work-based personal pensions The Pensions Regulator regulates occupational trust-based schemes. We share the task of regulating work-based personal pensions with the FCA. The FCA is responsible for regulating the conduct of pension scheme and investment product providers. The Pensions Regulator has statutory objectives including to protect the benefits of members of personal pension schemes where there is a direct payment arrangement. To do this we are working with: employers, eg providing guidance to help them choose a good quality scheme providers, eg encouraging them to use product and investment governance committees FCA to ensure that regulation is joined up, quality standards are consistent and the regulatory framework offers similar levels of member protection regardless of how a pension is provided. Our analysis suggests that there is a high level of alignment between the FCA’s rules and regulatory expectations for providers and our regulatory expectations on scheme quality (as defined by our DC principles and quality features that underpin the DC code and DC regulatory guidance). Go to initial analysis of the DC quality features in FSA regulation of work-based personal pensions (PDF, 116kb) . 
file_356.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_121.txt|Code in force: September 2013 Guidance available with this code This code and guidance sets out how managers of personal pension schemes should monitor the payment of contributions, provide information to help members to check contributions and report material payment failures to the regulator. 07: Trustee knowledge and understanding (TKU) Code in force: November 2009 This code is designed to help trustees by setting out what is meant by knowledge and understanding in the legislation and the scope of the knowledge and understanding requirements Code in force: November 2006 Guidance available with this code The purpose of this code is to help trustees of occupational pension schemes to put in place and implement arrangements to provide that at least one-third of the trustees are member-nominated trustees Code in force: November 2006 Guidance available with this code This code sets out the regulator's expectations of how occupational pension schemes should satisfy the legal requirement to have adequate internal controls in place Code in force: January 2007 This code aims to assist anyone seeking to modify an occupational pension scheme to discharge their duties 11: Dispute resolution - reasonable periods Code in force: July 2008 This code of practice provides practical examples on the Pensions Regulator's expectation of the reasonable time periods stated in the legislation related to dispute resolution Code in force: June 2009 Guidance available with this code It sets out the circumstances in which the regulator expects to issue a contribution notice as a result of being of the opinion that the material detriment test is met. 13: Governance and administration of occupational defined contribution trust-based schemes Code in force: November 2013 This code of practice sets out the legal requirements and standards of governance and administration that trustees of occupational defined contribution (DC) trust-based schemes need to attain. Share this page using: 
file_359.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
file_977.txt|Help Accessibility We’re constantly working to make GOV.UK as accessible and usable as possible. The website doesn’t have a separate accessibility statement. This is because we’ve tried to design GOV.UK to be as accessible and usable as possible for every user. You can read about a blog post about what we’re doing to improve accessibility on GOV.UK. Compatibility with tools GOV.UK should be compatible with recent versions of the following screen readers: Jaws 
file_686.txt|Network Rail's CP4 delivery plan Network Rail published its CP4 delivery plan in March 2009. We consulted the industry on the part of the plan dealing with Network Rail's outputs and have published the (non confidential) responses. After reviewing the responses and making our own assessment of the plan we wrote to Network Rail in May 2009. The letter set out the changes Network Rail needed to make to the plan by 30 June 2009. Network Rail published a revised version of the enhancement part of the plan in June 2009. We again consulted the industry to see if it was satisfied with the changes that have been made and carried out our own assessment. The revised version was a significant improvement, but was still inadequate in some areas. We wrote to Network Rail in September 2009 to set out the changes that will need to be made to the commitments for certain projects. These changes address concerns raised by operators and funders and allow the baseline to be set and monitored against. Further changes are expected as projects develop but they will be subject to a change control process. Network Rail has started to update the enhancements delivery plan and the latest version can be found on their website. Network Rail consults relevant stakeholders as part of the change control process. We consider any responses, along with what effects the changes have on Network Rail's committed outputs, in determining whether to accept the changes. We will publish all letters of approval here. Further information 
file_350.txt|Sorry we couldn't find that page (404 error) Please try one of the following: 
