You need to be logged in to continue Secondary menu 
Privacy & cookies Introduction When we provide services, we want to make them easy, useful and reliable. Where services are delivered on the internet, this sometimes involves placing small amounts of information on your device, for example, computer or mobile phone. These include small files known as cookies. They cannot be used to identify you personally. These pieces of information are used to improve services for you through, for example: enabling a service to recognise your device so you don't have to give the same information several times during one task recognising that you may already have given a username and password so you don't need to do it for every web page requested measuring how many people are using services, so they can be made easier to use and there's enough capacity to ensure they are fast analysing anonymised data to help us understand how people interact with govt services so we can make them better You can manage these small files and learn more about them from the article, Internet Browser cookies- what they are and how to manage them If you'd like to learn how to remove cookies set on your device, visit: http://www.aboutcookies.org/Default.aspx?page=1 ‘Our use of cookies’ Our use of cookies Google Analytics sets cookies to help us accurately estimate the number of visitors to the website and volumes of usage. This is to ensure that the NRT Portal is available when you want it, and to help us improve functionality. Google Analytics uses the following cookies: Name: _utma Purpose: to understand the number of visits, and the time of the first visit, the previous visit, and the current visit Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: 2 years Name: _utmb Purpose: to understand approximately how long visitors stay on a site, when a visit starts, and approximately ends Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: 30 minutes Name: _utmc Purpose: to understand approximately how long visitors stay on a site, when a visit starts, and approximately ends Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: when user exits browser Name: _utmd Purpose: to understand how the site was reached (e.g. directly or via a link, organic search or paid search) Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: 6 months Purpose: to understand which organisations have accessed the site Typical content: N/A Expires: when user exits browser Name: _utmz degradation Purpose: to understand the search engine and / or keyword followed to access the site Typical content: randomly generated number + info on how the site was reached (e.g. directly or via a link, organic search or paid search) Expires: 6 months For further details on the cookies set by Google Analytics, please refer to the Google Code website [1] The NRT portal also contains cookies improving performance (sticky sessions) and recording user preferences: Name: SESS6d06618e38d293160fd84a95eb1227de Purpose: This cookie sets a unique session id. It can be used tostore information in a form of a session identification that does not personally identify the user Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: 1 month Name: NSC_pss-qspexfc-wjq-iuuq Purpose:   Identify the session, allowing a session to return to the same server even if the client has changed IP addresses. Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: when user exits browser Name: NSC_pss-qspexfc-wjq-ttm Purpose: Identify the session, allowing a session to return to the same server even if the client has changed IP addresses. Typical content: randomly generated number Expires: when user exits browser Name: has_js Purpose: This cookie informs the content mangement system whether you have javascript enabled in your browser settings. It can deliver content in a suitable way depending on your settings. Typical content: 1 - which indicates that your browser supports javascript Expires: when user exits browser Third-party cookies We use a number of suppliers who may also set cookies on their websites' on its behalf Office of Rail Regulation (ORR) The ORR uses cookies to distinguish you from other users. This helps to provide you with a better experience when you visit and also allows them to improve their site by analysing statistics. Name: PHPSESSID Purpose: Is the unique identifier for the user's session, so the content management system knows who they are, what the last page they visited was, etc (important for ensuring when someone clicks on a content link, the content is display in the correct navigational context). Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.rail-reg.gov.uk/server/show/nav.2776 Name: LPSCM002 Purpose: Is used to hint to a load balancer which machine should serve the request (ideally the same machine would serve a single user's entire visit to maintain session data which is usually stored on disk) Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.rail-reg.gov.uk/server/show/nav.2776 Network Rail Network Rail uses cookies to distinguish you from other users. This helps to provide you with a better experience when you visit and also allows them to improve their site by analysing statistics. Name: NR-BETA Purpose:This cookie is used by our server infrastructure to maintain a consistent connection between your browser and a particular web server. Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: ecm Purpose:This cookie is used by Ektron, the content management system which powers our website. It is used to store (anonymous) information about the user including language and site information Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: EktGUID Purpose:This cookie is used by Ektron, the content management system which powers our website. A unique identifier for the current user is generated for all and assigned at the time they first arrive on the site. Expires: 1 year Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: EkAnalytics Purpose:This cookie is used by Ektron, the content management system which powers our website. It is an anonymous user type identifier for an analytics feature. Expires: 1 year Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: ASP.NET_SessionId Purpose:This cookie is the default one used by asp.net to uniquely identify the user's session on the site and relates the visitor's unique session to server side data. Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx Name: lastClickedId Purpose:Navigation cookie set by Network Rail during browsing of the website. The cookie tracks the user’s page request sequence and displays navigation path followed on screen. Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.networkrail.co.uk/browseDirectory.aspx SurveyMonkey When we provide links to third party services you find useful, SurveyMonkey may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Name: ep201 Purpose:When we provide links to third party services you find useful, they may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Their policy on use may be found on the link below. Expires: When you close the browser Link: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/useofNRT Name: ep202 Purpose:When we provide links to third party services you find useful, they may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Their policy on use may be found on the link below. Expires: 1 year Link: http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/useofNRT Name: TS54026e Purpose: When we provide links to third party services you find useful, they may place a cookie on your device to make their service easier to use. Their policy on use may be found on the link below. Expires: When you close the browser How to control and delete cookies We will not use cookies to collect personally identifiable information about you. However, if you wish to restrict or block the cookies which are set by our websites, or indeed any other website, you can do this through your browser settings. The ‘Help’ function within your browser should tell you how. Alternatively, you may wish to visit www . aboutcookies . org which contains comprehensive information on how to do this on a wide variety of browsers. You will also find details on how to delete cookies from your machine as well as more general information about cookies. Please be aware that restricting cookies may impact on the functionality of our website. If you wish to view your cookie code, just click on a cookie to open it. You'll see a short string of text and numbers. The numbers are your identification card, which can only be seen by the server that gave you the cookie. For information on how to do this on the browser of your mobile phone you will need to refer to your handset manual. To opt-out of third-parties collecting any data regarding your interaction on our website, please refer to their websites for further information. Break-down of identified cookie-supported functionality In line with the original COI guidance, many departments, agencies and NDPBs have taken steps to publish information about their use of  cookies, with varying degrees of comprehensiveness. A very basic audit of departments' websites, based mainly on the information provided within relevant “Privacy and cookies” policy pages, has been carried out by ORR.  45 cookies were identified through this process. These were then categorised into 8 broad groups (excluding the group for cookies labelled “miscellaneous” due to insufficient information provided on their  purpose): Cookie function 
Further Information Precusors Indicator Model The Railway Safety Standard Board's (RSSB) Precursor Indicator Model (PIM) has been published on the ORR Data Portal since 9th May 2011.  RSSB have now taken the decision to publish the raw data on their website.  This will be more frequently updated and presented at a lower level of aggregation than was done to date on the ORR Data Portal.  To avoid duplication of effort, the ORR has decided to withdraw this publication from the ORR Data Portal.  Historical data has been removed from the Data Portal since RSSB has also amended their method of producing the PIM which means that this historical data is no longer consistent with the latest published data, because in the revised PIM, RSSB is now using additional risk-ranked data provided by Network Rail, such as track condition, landslip and structure risk data. To access the latest PIM data, please visit the RSSB webpage at http://www.safetyriskmodel.co.uk/pages/default.aspx . Please note that registration and login is required to download the excel spreadsheet containing the raw numbers. Rail market share publication Rail market share was due to be published on 25th July 2013 as part of the freight market indicators release. ORR have not received freight data for other modes of transport from the Department for Transport so we were unable to publish the dataset at this time. The other tables within freight market indicators, impact on road haulage and number of freight train movements were published as scheduled. The updated publication date for rail market share will be confirmed when we are in receipt of the data.  DfT road freight data are not yet available for 2011 though it is hoped that updated estimates will be produced later in 2014. Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch publication As part of our commitment to maintaining the quality of all our data, we run a quality assurance process. This process identified issues with comparability between the London TravelWatch and Passenger Focus data used to produce the Appeals opened by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch table and Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch table. As data quality is critical, we did not publish the 2012-13 Q4 update to the Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch table on Thursday 20th June. The remaining data for 2012-13 was published on Thursday 17th October. However, due to differences in methodology between London TravelWatch and Passenger Focus for the appeals opened data, from 2013-14 we will not publish the data for the foreseeable future. Passenger Focus intend to publish statistics on the number of appeals resolved and we will be sign-posting to their website once published. We still have concerns over the data quality for the Complaints received by Passenger Focus or London TravelWatch table and therefore will not publish the data for the foreseeable future. Please contact us if you would like more information. We would like to apologise for any inconvenience this causes. Crowding Data Publication Our commitment to transparency means working with our data providers to ensure relevant datasets are disseminated to users, while at the same time avoiding duplication. Crowding data is an area where we believe we can become more efficient. To date, subsets of the crowding data have been supplied to us by Department for Transport (DfT) and published on the NRT Data Portal, despite them already being published on the DfT website at an earlier date. From August 2013 we will therefore stop publishing the crowding data and instead provide a reference (sign-posting) to the data on the DfT website. The sign-posting will start with the 2012-13 data, which was published by DfT on the 24th July 2013. Latest reports 
