Error: Page cannot be displayed Unfortunately the page you are looking for has not been found on our website. Please use the back button on your browser and try again or use our: Alternatively, you may be able to find an archived version of this page in the National Archives (external link) If you need any assistance please contact our Web Team by emailing webupdates@mhra.gsi.gov.uk Please help us improve our website by reporting technical problems using our online Technical feedback form 

Printer friendly version (new window) This section provides access to a range of  services to help you keep up to date with the latest updates from the MHRA. You can sign up for free email notifications when new content is published on the MHRA website, follow us on Twitter, like us on Facebook or receive the latest news from the MHRA using our RSS feeds. You can also view the MHRA YouTube channel. Email alerting service In this section you can sign up to receive our free email alerts. This service enables you to receive free emails when new content is added to the sections of your choice on the MHRA website, ensuring you receive the latest news from the MHRA as soon as it is issued. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Twitter 
Printer friendly version (new window) The MHRA is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in the UK by ensuring they work and are acceptably safe. The MHRA is a centre of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency which also includes the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control (NIBSC) , (external link)  and the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) . (external link) The MHRA is an executive agency of the Department of Health. Who we are 
The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Fees This page includes the fees payable for the regulation of medicines, guidance for periodic fees, and how to make payments to the MHRA. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Clinical trials This page provides links to information on applying for a clinical trial authorisation (CTA), maintaining a CTA, safety reporting and  Good Clinical Practice (GCP). The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Post marketing authorisation approval This page provides links to information about post marketing authorisation approval procedures, including  variations, renewals, and changes of ownership. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Herbal, homeopathic and borderline medicines This page provides links to information on how to place a herbal medicine on the UK market, homeopathic medicines and borderline medicines. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Manufacturing and wholesaling This page provides links to information about manufacturer's and wholesale dealer's licences, including the registers of licensed sites and lists of  new, terminated and revoked licences, importing and exporting, and the associated legislation and guidance. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Contacting the MHRA This page provides links to information about how to contact the MHRA. It also includes an escalation procedure for industry to resolve any issues informally. Go to the contacting the MHRA page Legislation, guidance and policy This page provides links to information on medicines legislation, guidance and policy. It includes an overview of medicines legislation, including preparing a medicinal product for sale in the UK or EU marketplace, how the MHRA develops policy, and current MHRA consultations relevant to industry. Go to the legislation, guidance and policy page Applying for a marketing authorisation This page provides links to all the information needed for obtaining a marketing authorisation (including parallel import licences) in the UK. Product information and advertising This page provides links to information on product information (labels, patient information leaflets and packaging) and advertising. Go to the product information and advertising page Inspection This page provides links to information about the different types of inspection, including the inspection process and risk-based inspections, as well as the associated legislation and guidance. Go to the inspection page Safety and pharmacovigilance This page provides links to information about safety and pharmacovigilance, including adverse drug reaction reporting, periodic safety update reports, 'Drug Safety Update', as well as the associated legislation and guidance. Go to the safety and pharmacovigilance page Over-the-counter medicines This page provides links to the latest information about over-the-counter (OTC) medicines including products containing codeine, pseudoephedrine and children's cough and cold medicines and reclassification of medicines, as well as questions and answers on the new OTC Product Licensing Assessment Team (PLAT) 7. Go to the over-the-counter medicines page Medicines for children This page provides links to information about the regulation of medicines for children, including the requirements for submission of paediatric data and the European paediatric work-sharing procedures. 
This section includes details of upcoming MHRA conference and events, as well as educational programmes for healthcare professionals about medicines and medical devices. It also gives information on how we can provide experienced MHRA speakers for your events. Conferences This section provides information about the MHRA’s events and conferences programme, including conference documentation and team contacts. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Go to the section on conferences Request a speaker MHRA speakers are renowned worldwide for their knowledge and expertise in Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Regulation and regularly participate in both high profile international events and smaller low key events. We can provide you with experienced speakers to match your event needs and enhance your event programme. The unwanted display of the text is removed here...dont delete this Educational programmes This section provides educational programmes for healthcare professionals about medicines and medical devices. The topics covered include: 
Media Centre Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency We protect and improve the health of millions of people every day through the effective regulation of medicines and medical devices, underpinned by science and research. Keep up to date with the latest updates from the MHRA. Follow us on twitter @MHRAGovUK and @MHRAGovUKPress Our website is moving to... View all news and press releases > Careers @ MHRA Find out more about working at the MHRA and view our current vacancies through the Civil Service jobs website Education modules side effect to a medicine or vaccine, herbal or homeopathic remedy a problem with a medical device a defective medicine a fake (counterfeit) medicine or medical device Yellow Card is now the single route for reporting blood reaction/event Latest safety information This section includes Drug Alerts on defective medicines, Medical Device Alerts and safety warnings and messages about medicines. 
