Independent trustee register Governance and administration The areas of governance and administration that you need to focus on to ensure that your defined benefit pension scheme is well run. Contributions As part of the valuation process for your defined benefit pension scheme, you need to work with the employer to set their contribution rate. You must prepare and maintain a schedule of contributions and check that the employer makes the correct payments. 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Complete and accurate record-keeping: your role Trustees and administrators have a vital role to play in ensuring defined contribution (DC) pension schemes have complete and accurate records. Good quality member data Record-keeping is at the heart of a good quality pension scheme. Poor data can have a major impact on members and cost a lot of time and money to fix. Having complete and accurate member data forms a part of the 31 quality features that we expect to see in well-managed DC schemes. Record-keeping continues to be one of our main areas of focus. We have recently opened a number of cases into schemes where we needed to investigate further their standards of record-keeping. Trustees and administrators need to work together effectively to ensure that schemes have complete and accurate member data that is reviewed regularly. Trustees Even if you outsource the management of your scheme data to an administrator, you are responsible for the quality of that data. For good practice tips, including working effectively with an administrator, read our quick guide to record-keeping: 
Back to top Staff already in a qualifying pension scheme If you already have a qualifying pension scheme, you’ll still need to write to those staff who are in the scheme. This is to tell them about automatic enrolment and that they won’t be affected as they are already in your pension scheme. To write to staff who are eligible for automatic enrolment but who are already in your existing pension scheme use letter template 4 and its guidance below. Guidance for Letter template 4 (DOC, 33kb, 2 pages) The time limits for writing to your staff You must write to your staff within six weeks of your staging date. After staging, when automatic enrolment is business as usual, you must write within six weeks of the day a new staff member joins or becomes eligible to be automatically enrolled. The exception is for existing scheme members who must be contacted within two months. Sending the letters The information you send must be in writing, so you can send the letters by post or email. The letters must be sent individually. You can ask a third party, like your accountant or financial adviser to send the letters on your behalf, but it remains your responsibility to make sure the right information gets to the right member of staff at the right time. 
Detailed guidance Key points Ensure key information is communicated to scheme members regularly to keep them informed and to enable them to make decisions. Ensure communications are accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. What to communicate to members You may issue communications on behalf of trustees or you may be asked by trustees to help them provide information to members. Make sure that certain information is communicated to members. This includes: basic information within two months of the member joining, or one month if they have been automatically enrolled – including an explanation of lifestyling where it is offered by the scheme, when it is likely to be adopted, and outlining its advantages and disadvantages a statutory money purchase illustration showing, for example, the member’s projected pension and an annual benefit statement providing details of contributions credited to the member in the preceding scheme year certain documents on request, eg trustees annual report, scheme rules, statement of investment principles, and ad hoc benefit statements and transfer values where the scheme offers lifestyling, an explanation of it and when it is likely to be adopted (or if it has been adopted) five to 15 years before a member retires, and its advantages and disadvantages information about selecting an annuity from an insurance company of the member’s choice (the open market option) at least four months before their expected retirement date information when other specific events happen, eg when a member leaves the scheme or the scheme winds up. You should also ensure that scheme members receive information about: their current investment strategy and why they need to review the suitability of their investment choices how their level of contributions is a key factor in determining the overall size of their pension fund costs and charges. Back to top Providing good quality communications The retirement outcome that a member receives is more likely to be improved when they engage on key issues. Your client should make sure that communications meet the needs of members from when they join the scheme until when they retire. Many members have little or no interest in their pension until they reach retirement. Therefore, your client should ensure that member communications are accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. Focus on providing the right information, at the right time using the right channel. Consider how best to use resources such as a scheme website, email, the company intranet, webinars and podcasts, mobile phone applications and text messages. You and / or the trustees should work with the employer. For instance, you may wish to issue joint communications from the employer and the trustee. Planning Encourage trustees to document their approach to communications in a plan. This could set out communication objectives, how they will be achieved and who is responsible for the different aspects of communications. Monitoring Ensure your client reviews scheme communications regularly, eg once a year, and when legislation changes. Monitor how effective they are in achieving their objectives and take action when they don’t meet their objectives. Ensure that the trustees include member communications as an item in their risk register. Go to risk management . 
A quick guide to paying contributions to personal and DC occupational pension schemes (PDF, 51kb) Published: June 2013 Find out how to set up your scheme correctly and understand what contributions you and your staff have to pay and when they must be paid by. Guide to the regulation of workplace defined contribution pensions (PDF, 132kb, 12 pages) Published: March 2014 The Pensions Regulator and the Financial Conduct Authority have jointly developed this guide to provide an overview of how workplace defined contribution pensions are regulated to protect the interests of consumers. Public service pension guides If you're involved in managing pension schemes in the public sector, see our public service pension guides . Share this page using: 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Updates to The Pensions Regulator's website The pensions landscape and the use of technology has changed considerably over the past few years so it’s essential that our website continues to evolve. Site updates In response to these changes we've updated the site to provide you with a consistent experience of our website – whether you’re viewing it on a desktop, tablet or mobile device. Changes to audience sections We've retained the main audience sections on the website for employers, business advisers and trustees. The name of the pension professionals area has changed to ‘business advisers’ in recognition of the wide range of users accessing our site since the start of automatic enrolment. Updated navigation The navigation includes new menus that signpost you directly to content in each of our main audience sections. There's a featured items section on the right hand side which highlights some of the most recent information. New footer Much of the content from the top navigation header – including information about what we do, how we regulate, contact details, glossary, and the press room – has moved to the footer menu. The Exchange login and public services content has moved to a new navigation bar situated just above the footer – which also contains links to information on automatic enrolment and the Trustee toolkit. This content is available no matter what page you’re on. Let us know what you think We value your feedback. If you have any comments on our new website design please let us know using our web enquiry form . Share this page using: 
Forms available for download Learning resources Free online learning resources including quick and easy bite-sized modules as well as our Trustee toolkit downloadable resources. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit We provide a free online learning programme called the Trustee toolkit to help trustees understand their role.  You must login or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. On this page 
Key points You must keep records about your staff and your pension scheme. Ensure that you have all your records ready for automatic enrolment and have the right processes in place to manage any changes. Make sure you provide the right information to your pension schemes. Which records to keep By law, there are two different types of records that an employer must keep: Records about staff Records about the pension scheme You must keep these records for a minimum of six years (except for records of opt-outs which you must keep for four years). You can find a list of the records that must be kept in our detailed guidance on keeping records below. Back to top Keeping records You must retain any opt-in, joining or opt-out notices you receive from your staff as this is proof that they have exercised these rights. You must keep these records in a legible format so that the regulator can understand them, if we ask to see them. Employers staging on or after 1 January 2014 will have a new declaration of compliance (registration) deadline due to a change in the law. If you outsource your business or pensions administration to a third party, it’s still your legal responsibility to make sure they follow the same rules as above. The records must be provided to us in a timely manner, if we ask to see them. 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
Detailed guidance Key points Communicate key information to scheme members regularly to keep them informed and to enable them to make decisions. Provide communications that are accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. What you need to communicate to members You must communicate certain information to your defined contribution (DC) scheme members. This includes: basic information within two months of the member joining, or one month if they have been automatically enrolled – including an explanation of lifestyling where it is offered by the scheme, when it is likely to be adopted, and outlining its advantages and disadvantages a statutory money purchase illustration showing, for example, the member’s projected pension and an annual benefit statement providing details of contributions credited to the member in the preceding scheme year certain documents on request, eg trustees annual report, scheme rules, statement of investment principles, and ad hoc benefit statements and transfer values where the scheme offers lifestyling, an explanation of it and when it is likely to be adopted (or if it has been adopted) five to 15 years before a member retires, and its advantages and disadvantages information about selecting an annuity from an insurance company of the member’s choice (the open market option) at least four months before their expected retirement date information when other specific events happen, eg when a member leaves the scheme or the scheme winds up. You should also communicate information to your scheme members about: their current investment strategy and why they need to review the suitability of their investment choices how their level of contributions is a key factor in determining the overall size of their pension fund costs and charges. Back to top Providing good quality communications The retirement outcome that a member receives is more likely to be improved when they engage on key issues. You should make sure that communications meet the needs of members from when they join the scheme until when they retire. Many members have little or no interest in their pension until they reach retirement. Therefore, you should ensure that member communications are accurate, clear, understandable and engaging. Focus on providing the right information, at the right time using the right channel. You should consider how best to use resources such as a scheme website, email, the company intranet, webinars and podcasts, mobile phone applications and text messages. You should work with the employer. For instance, you may wish to issue joint communications. Planning You may wish to document your approach to communications in a plan. This could set out your communication objectives, how you plan to achieve them and who is responsible for the different aspects of communications. Monitoring You should review scheme communications regularly, for example once a year, and when legislation changes. Monitor how effective they are in achieving their objectives and take action when they don’t meet their objectives. You should ensure that member communications is an item in your risk register. Go to risk management . Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit A tutorial in the 'How a DC scheme works (2014)' module called 'Member communications' covers how to communicate effectively with scheme members. You must log in or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
Closing a scheme Assist your clients with their workplace pension schemes Your clients may ask you to help them with the pension schemes they plan to use for automatic enrolment. The three main areas are listed below. Choosing a scheme Many employers will be setting up new schemes and may need your help to identify a qualifying scheme that's right for their business and which also produces a good outcome for its members. An employer's guide to selecting a pension scheme For information on the main areas that your clients should focus on, to ensure they choose a value for money scheme that will deliver good member outcomes, please read an employer’s guide to selecting a good quality pension scheme for automatic enrolment (PDF, 98kb, 10 pages) . An accountant’s guide to pensions scheme selection Accountants responding to client queries about choosing a pension scheme for automatic enrolment can read an accountant's guide to pension scheme selection and automatic enrolment (PDF, 64kb, 7 pages) . Financial adviser’s guide to selecting a pension scheme To help financial advisers deal with queries from their clients about choosing a pension scheme for automatic enrolment please read a financial adviser's guide to selecting a good quality pension scheme for automatic enrolment (PDF, 58kb, 7 pages) . Find out the pay elements that must be included and the lowest possible employer contribution for each worker, in our interactive tool your minimum employer contribution . Enrolment and managing the scheme A specific process must be followed to enrol workers into the chosen scheme. Once active membership has been achieved, there are ongoing responsibilities that you may be involved in, such as ensuring contributions are paid on time and that any opt-out or opt-in notices are processed and accurate records maintained. Employers must also follow the automatic enrolment process for anyone who asks to opt in. For an explanation of the automatic enrolment process, please read our guidance on automatic enrolment . Opting-in and opting-out process For information about opt-in processes and how contractual enrolment fits with the new legislation, read our detailed guidance on opting in, joining and contractual enrolment (PDF, 141kb, 33 pages) . For an overview of the automatic enrolment process, including processing opt outs, see our interactive tool how to automatically enrol your staff . Both the employer and the pension scheme must, by law, keep certain records. For the records that must be kept and for how long, read our detailed guidance on keeping records (PDF, 97kb, 13 pages) . Review existing pension arrangements Clients with existing pension schemes may want to use them for automatic enrolment. These schemes will need to meet certain criteria, which could involve changing the scheme rules or terms and conditions. You’ll need to understand how the new legislation fits with existing pension arrangements, such as salary exchange or contractual enrolment. Does my client’s existing scheme qualify? To help you assess whether an existing DC scheme is a qualifying scheme and whether it can be used for automatic enrolment, please use our interactive tool: does your existing scheme qualify? Use an existing scheme or set up a new system? Our webinar explains qualifying schemes and discusses what you need to consider when deciding to use existing systems or putting new systems in place. It also reviews a pension scheme that qualifies for automatic enrolment. Watch our webinar on implementing automatic enrolment systems and pension schemes . For a summary on the main differences between contractual and automatic enrolment, and how to fit contractual enrolment in with the automatic enrolment duties, read our leaflet on contractual versus automatic enrolment (PDF, 26kb, 3 pages) . There are minimum requirements for schemes to qualify and to be used for automatic enrolment, and details on certification and use of schemes based outside the UK, in our detailed guidance on pension schemes (PDF, 341kb, 38 pages) . Subscribe to news-by-email Subscribe to our news-by-email service – it's a free and easy way to keep up to date with all our developments. You can choose to receive updates on everything or only updates on automatic enrolment. Share this page using: 
If you are blind Provide feedback on our site We're working hard on our website and believe we've achieved our goal of Level AA accessibility. We monitor the website regularly to maintain this, but if you do find any problems, please go to our web enquiry page and let us know. Accessing PDFs on our site You'll need to download and use free Adobe Reader software to access the portable document format (PDF) files on our website. Download the latest version of Adobe Reader . For further information on Adobe products and accessibility go to the Adobe accessibility section . All our documents can be produced in an alternative format on request - in Braille, large print or on audiotape. We can also produce them in other languages. Viewing CSV files on our site CSV (Comma-Separated-Value) is a common file type used to import data from one software application to another, with commas separating the values in each field. This file format allows for data to be easily retrieved into a variety of applications, they are best viewed within one that will allow the easy manipulation of data that is displayed in columns. Common examples of such applications are those that are used to create spreadsheets, such as Microsoft Excel or Open Office Calc. If you don't have access to a suitable application, you can also view: the data in either an ASCII text-editor or a word-processor. However, since neither of these application types has the facility to easily format the width of the data columns, quite a bit of manual reformatting may be required to view the files properly. the file in your browser, or you may want to download the file by 'right-clicking' on the link and save the file to your computer. Some people may find that when they view the CSV file some information may not be correctly displayed. For example, you may see: rows of 'hash' symbols eg '######' instead of numbers or letters, this is because the current column is too narrow, try double clicking the column header some information displayed in 'scientific notation' eg '1.23 x 109' instead of '1230000000', this is remedied by setting the column format to 'number' rather than 'general' or 'scientific'. Using access keys on our site We have added keyboard shortcuts known as ‘access keys’ on our website to allow you to navigate as directly as possible to your desired location using your keyboard. Access Keys (keyboard shortcuts) for this site are as follows: 1 - Home 
Help your clients comply with their duties You can help your clients avoid penalties by understanding how they must comply with their employer duties. But if you're an adviser, there are third party compliance obligations which you must be aware of when carrying out these activities on behalf of your clients. We will enforce non-compliance by issuing statutory notices and fixed or escalating penalties. Responsibility for complying with the duties ultimately lies with the employer. Compliance and enforcement Learn about our approach to minimising non-compliance with automatic enrolment, and how we will enforce deliberate non-compliance by reading what happens if I don't comply? For a summary of the compliance and enforcement strategy, outlining our regulatory approach and legal powers, read our guidance on employer duties and defining the workforce (PDF, 163kb, 28 pages) . Keeping records There are certain records that must be kept by law, by both the employer and the pension scheme, as proof of compliance. Read our detailed guidance on keeping records (PDF, 97kb, 13 pages) . Create an action plan For an overview of what your clients need to do to comply, with links to information and resources that help with each step, use our tool to create your action plan for automatic enrolment . To remind your clients of the steps they should have already completed six months before their staging date, you can send them our six month checkpoint leaflet (PDF, 42kb, 2 pages) . A Welsh version of the six month checkpoint leaflet (PDF, 145kb, 2 pages) is also available. Safeguards and employer duties Some of the safeguards came into effect from 1 July 2012, so all employers must be compliant now and not just from their staging date – make sure your clients are aware of this. Support your clients to comply with the new employer duties by reading our detailed guidance on safeguarding individuals (PDF, 104kb, 17 pages) . Subscribe to news-by-email Subscribe to our news-by-email service – it's a free and easy way to keep up to date with all our developments. You can choose to receive updates on everything or only updates on automatic enrolment. Share this page using: 
This page applies to you if you’re appointed by trustees of a defined benefit pension scheme to help them to understand the impact of corporate changes and transactions on their scheme. Share this page using: 

Independent trustee register Automatic enrolment and the role of trustees The introduction of automatic enrolment means that all UK employers will have to provide their workers with access to a pension scheme. Millions of workers have already been automatically enrolled into pension schemes, and while these new duties apply to employers, trustees have an important role to play. A downloadable version of the information on this web page about automatic enrolment and the role of trustees. On this page Fine tuning Your role As the trustee of a pension scheme, you might find that you are the first point of contact for employers. If this happens, you should be able to provide the right information to employers about automatic enrolment, for example whether your scheme is suitable to be used, and what impact automatic enrolment might have on your scheme. If an employer chooses to use your scheme there may be other tasks that they ask the trustees to undertake on their behalf, such as communicating with members or completing a declaration of compliance (registration) with the regulator to confirm that the employer has complied with the new duties. Back to top The impact on your scheme While an employer may approach your scheme, we think many of them will choose a group personal pension or a master trust for automatic enrolment. Usually run by large specialist pension providers, these schemes are generally designed to be used by large numbers of different employers. However, if an employer does explore the possibility of using your scheme for automatic enrolment, it’s important that you are able to quickly assess whether this is possible and feasible. You also need to consider the impact on the scheme of potential new members and any additional resources needed to accommodate them. This will include the impact on the quality of service that existing members receive. You should also, in conjunction with the employer, consider who will pay for any additional costs associated with an increase in membership. Trustees should consider whether their scheme is in a position to accommodate the potentially rapid and significant increase in administration and governance requirements that may occur if their scheme is used to automatically enrol workers. If it is concluded that your scheme is not in a position to be used for automatic enrolment you can direct the employer to our guide to selecting a scheme below. Back to top Check whether your scheme can be used for automatic enrolment An employer can only elect to use a scheme for automatic enrolment if it meets certain legal criteria. These include that the scheme does not require the worker's consent to join, that it allows workers to join from their first day of employment, and that it is tax registered in the UK. If you run a defined contribution (DC) scheme, then you can use our qualifying scheme tool below to assess whether your scheme can be used. Interactive tool DC qualifying schemes tool The tool will help you assess whether your DC scheme is a qualifying scheme and explains the additional criteria that the scheme will need to meet in order to be used for automatic enrolment. If you run a defined benefit (DB) scheme, then we have guidance that can help you with this assessment below. Guidance 4: Pension schemes (PDF, 341kb, 38 pages) See our detailed guidance to check whether a DB scheme qualifies for automatic enrolment. If your scheme does not qualify, you can suggest that the employer uses our employer's guide to selecting a good quality scheme for automatic enrolment (see above) to help them select a different scheme. Alternatively, the employer may ask you to change the scheme rules so that your existing scheme can be used. If changes are proposed then you will need to consider, and advise the employer, whether existing scheme members need to be consulted about the proposed change. As well as ensuring that the scheme they select qualifies for automatic enrolment use, employers should choose a good quality pension scheme that is well run, offers value for money and protects workers’ retirement savings. We have provided guidance for employers to help them assess whether a DC scheme is of good quality. This includes whether the set up of the scheme is straightforward, the investment options on offer, how well investments are managed, whether costs and charges provide value for money, the qualifications of those responsible for running the scheme and the quality of communications provided to members. Back to top Fine tuning Whether or not your scheme is going to be used to meet the employer duties, it’s important that you make sure that it is performing well and in the interests of its members. In particular, DC scheme trustees should take this opportunity to ensure that their scheme is well run, offers value for money and protects workers’ retirement savings. We have published the DC code of practice and accompanying DC regulatory guidance on the governance and administration of DC schemes. You can use our introduction to the DC code and DC regulatory guidance to review the quality features we expect to be present in your scheme. These features focus on how trustees need to understand their scheme, risk management, investments, governance, administration and member communications. 
All our automatic enrolment guidance for employers in one place Pension scams Pension scams – also known as ‘one-off pension investments’, ‘pension loans’ or upfront cash – can leave you with little or no pension. Check the facts before you make an irreversible decision. A lifetime's savings can be lost in a moment. Don't get stung. Find out what to do if you're a pension scheme member and you think you're being targeted by a pension scam: Information for pension scheme members about pension scams Whistleblowing and other concerns If you suspect malpractice in your work-based pension scheme, or have significant concerns about how it is being run, you can report this to us. Who to contact if you have concerns about your pension scheme Complaints, advice, planning and tax Please note that private sector organisations we link to are not endorsed by Government and are provided for information only. 
Workplace pensions. We're all in. The Pensions Regulator Are you an employer? Workplace pensions are here. Act now. It's the law. Even if you employ just one person, you must provide a workplace pension. The law requires all employers to provide a workplace pension for certain staff. Find out how the change in law will affect you. What is automatic enrolment? The law on workplace pensions has changed. Every employer with at least one member of staff now has new duties, including putting those who meet certain criteria into a workplace pension scheme and contributing towards it. This is called automatic enrolment. It’s called this because it’s automatic for your staff – they don’t have to do anything to be enrolled into your pension scheme. But it’s not automatic for you. You need to take steps to make sure they’re enrolled. Does the change in law affect me? Yes, if you employ at least one member of staff, you’ll need to automatically enrol them into a pension scheme if they meet certain criteria. Get started by reading our essential guide to automatic enrolment . View the essential guide to automatic enrolment When will the change in law affect me? Each employer has a date by which they need to comply with the law. This is called your staging date. Find out yours now with our staging date tool . Find out your staging date What do I need to do and by when? There are a number of tasks that will need to be completed by your staging date, including assessing your workforce to see who’s eligible, choosing a pension scheme, and communicating to staff. To help you prepare use our automatic enrolment action planner to find out what you need to do and by when. Create my action plan How do I nominate a contact? You need to tell us who’ll be responsible for managing the automatic enrolment process by nominating a contact. Over the coming months, we'll send help and guidance to this person. Nominate a contact What if I'm not an employer? If you’re a member of staff, not an employer, check if automatic enrolment applies to you . The Pensions Regulator is empowered by the UK government to regulate work-based pensions. Join us on social media 
Automatic enrolment - act now A lifetime's savings can be lost in a moment Pension scams are on the increase in the UK. Check the facts before you make an irreversible decision. Pension scams. Don’t get stung. Your role in the future of defined contribution Use our new tools to demonstrate the quality of your defined contribution (DC) pension scheme to employers and scheme members. Find out how to assess your scheme Striking the balance for your defined benefit scheme Use our revised code to ensure your defined benefit (DB) pension scheme is run and funded effectively in order to meet its promises. 
Workplace pensions. We're all in. The Pensions Regulator Are you an employer? Workplace pensions are here. Act now. It's the law. Even if you employ just one person, you must provide a workplace pension. The law requires all employers to provide a workplace pension for certain staff. Find out how the change in law will affect you. What is automatic enrolment? The law on workplace pensions has changed. Every employer with at least one member of staff now has new duties, including putting those who meet certain criteria into a workplace pension scheme and contributing towards it. This is called automatic enrolment. It’s called this because it’s automatic for your staff – they don’t have to do anything to be enrolled into your pension scheme. But it’s not automatic for you. You need to take steps to make sure they’re enrolled. Does the change in law affect me? Yes, if you employ at least one member of staff, you’ll need to automatically enrol them into a pension scheme if they meet certain criteria. Get started by reading our essential guide to automatic enrolment . View the essential guide to automatic enrolment When will the change in law affect me? Each employer has a date by which they need to comply with the law. This is called your staging date. Find out yours now with our staging date tool . Find out your staging date What do I need to do and by when? There are a number of tasks that will need to be completed by your staging date, including assessing your workforce to see who’s eligible, choosing a pension scheme, and communicating to staff. To help you prepare use our automatic enrolment action planner to find out what you need to do and by when. Create my action plan How do I nominate a contact? You need to tell us who’ll be responsible for managing the automatic enrolment process by nominating a contact. Over the coming months, we'll send help and guidance to this person. Nominate a contact What if I'm not an employer? If you’re a member of staff, not an employer, check if automatic enrolment applies to you . The Pensions Regulator is empowered by the UK government to regulate work-based pensions. Join us on social media 
Section 89 reports We are committed to being open and transparent in our activities, which may include publishing reports under section 89 of the Pensions Act 2004 on our considerations in particular cases. All documents can be produced in an alternative format on request - in Braille, large print or on audiotape. We can also produce them in other languages. You can reproduce the text in any of these publications, as long as you quote the name and title of the publication. And you can reproduce the text on this website, as long as you identify our website as the source of the material. Some of our documents are published in Adobe Acrobat's Portable Document Format (PDF). Adobe Reader allows you to view, navigate, and print PDF (Portable Document Format) files across all major computing platforms, this can be downloaded from the Adobe website. 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Trustees Trustees are vital to providing good quality trust-based pensions and protecting members' benefits. Guidance and resources to help you in your important and challenging role. 
Closing a scheme The essential guide to automatic enrolment The law on workplace pensions has changed. All employers are legally required to automatically enrol certain staff into a pension scheme and make contributions. You will also have to tell your staff about the scheme you put them in and allow other staff to join if they request to do so. Prepare for automatic enrolment Find out how to prepare for automatic enrolment with this step-by-step guide to your new legal duties. Guidance The essential guide to automatic enrolment Our electronic brochure outlines the main steps that you need to take to be ready for automatic enrolment. You can also find alternative non-flash and PDF formats below. Please note: There may be circumstances that are not covered in the guide that could have an impact on the decisions or changes you're required to make. You may need to seek additional guidance or professional advice to ensure that you meet your legal obligations. Alternative formats of the essential guide to automatic enrolment 
Closing a scheme Implementing automatic enrolment Find out what you need to do to automatically enrol your staff into a good quality pension scheme. Check your progress If you're nearing your staging date, the resources below summarise the preparations you need to have in place. Postponement You can choose to postpone automatic enrolment for up to three months for some or all of your staff. You must write to your staff to tell them you’re postponing automatic enrolment for them. One of the times you can postpone is from your staging date. 
Social media policies Terms and conditions The Pensions Regulator (the regulator), is the manager of the website, and may make changes to the content of the website at any time without notice. By accessing the regulator’s online services you agree to be bound by our terms and conditions, which apply to the services we provide and our websites. Linking policy Our policy on linking to and from this website. Linking to this site We welcome and encourage other websites to link to the information that is hosted on these pages, and you don’t have to ask permission to link to our website. However, you should not suggest that your website is or contents are associated with, or endorsed by, The Pensions Regulator. Linking from this site We link to other Government departments and representative bodies but not individual companies. Where our website contains links to other websites and resources provided by third parties, these links are provided for your information only. We make no warranty of any kind with respect to those websites or content thereof or the completeness or accuracy of those websites. Visitors should take specific advice from a qualified professional, where necessary. Descriptions of, or references or links to other websites within our website are not, and do not imply, an endorsement of those websites or their contents. We have no control over the contents of those sites or resources, and accept no responsibility for them or for any loss, disruption or damage that may arise from your use of them. Hardware and software compatibility We do not guarantee that this website will be compatible with all or any hardware and software which you may use or that this website will be available all the time or at any specific time. Virus protection We make every effort to check and test material at all stages of production. It is always wise for you to run an anti-virus program on all material downloaded from the internet. Registering for our online services To register for our online services you must provide us with a working email address and a password. You agree to keep your password secret and safe. However, if you are using an email address that can be accessed by multiple users, those who have access to that email address and password are jointly responsible for keeping the sign up details secure. The services are: Exchange: a service which allows you to view information online (scheme information and Levy invoices), to send information electronically (scheme returns and corrections to scheme information), to tell us about any material payment failures for defined contribution schemes (maintaining contributions) and to receive information electronically from the regulator (issuance of Levy invoices to designated contacts and the scheme return notice). The Trustee toolkit: a service providing online learning for trustees and others to increase their knowledge and understanding of trustee responsibility. News-by-email: a subscription service allowing you to keep up-to-date with the regulator’s developments. Automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration): a service allowing employers to complete the required declaration with the regulator when they have automatically enrolled certain workers into a pension scheme. Exchange registration When you sign up for Exchange you agree to provide your name, postal address, email address and telephone number. You also agree to submit a number of security questions with answers. You may change any of your user sign up details. You may also request to be removed as a user. To login, you will use the email address and password you supplied to verify your identity and to authenticate the scheme information you send. Once you have signed up, you will be provided with a key, which will allow you to access your scheme information via the Exchange system. You agree to keep your key safe and secret. If you give your key to another you are authorising that person to access and use the services on your behalf. The Trustee toolkit registration When you sign up for the Trustee toolkit, you will be asked to provide information which includes your name, the type of trustee you are (if you are a trustee), the type of scheme of which you are a trustee and an email address. This information allows us to provide you with a development record and will inform you of any future releases of the e-learning programme and encourage you to complete the learning programme. Automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration) When you sign up for automatic enrolment declaration you will be asked to provide information which includes your name, contact details, your code as provided to you by the regulator and details relating to your company. For more information about what you'll need to provide go to automatic enrolment declaration of compliance (registration ). News-by-email registration To receive news-by-email you are asked to provide information which includes your name, email address and your role (where linked to the pension industry). Variation to terms and conditions By accepting these terms and conditions you agree that we may: Use the services for any part of our dealings with you in relation to any of the services you are signed up for. Change, withdraw or add to the services and the website (or their features) or change the way in which you may access the services, all without notice. Revise these terms and conditions from time to time as we develop the service. You will be notified of any changes via the email address provided on sign up or via a notification on our website. The changes will apply to the use of our website and services after we have given notice. If you do not wish to accept the new terms and conditions you should not continue to use the services. If you continue to use the services after the date on which the change comes into effect, your use of the services indicates your agreement to be bound by the new terms and conditions. You can view our terms and conditions at any time by selecting the 'terms and conditions' link on our website. Contact between you and the regulator We will normally use your email address to communicate with you. Alternatively we may contact you using your postal address and telephone number. Please note that sending information by email is not secure and is done so at your own risk. Back to top Data Protection Act 1998 and privacy The Pensions Regulator is a data controller under the Data Protection Act 1998. We will hold and process your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in accordance with this Act. Where personal data of third parties is provided by you, we assume that you have obtained the required authority to supply this information unless you tell us otherwise. We will hold and process your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in accordance with this Act. We may use your personal information and any personal information of third parties supplied in connection with any of our statutory functions, including but not limited to, the purpose of internal record keeping, to provide any of our services for which you have registered and to contact you. We will not transfer, disclose, sell, distribute or lease the information that you have provided to third parties unless we have your permission except where permitted to do so for the purpose of exercising our regulatory functions or where we are permitted or required by law to assist other bodies to exercise their statutory functions. Further information on how your information is used, kept secure and your access rights please see our privacy notice . EIOPA public register The Pensions Regulator is required under EU law to provide the following information to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) which will then be published on their register: the name, address, cross-border status, and host country or countries of the pension schemes in the regulator’s register. The EIOPA public register of European occupational pension schemes is updated annually and available to view on the EIOPA website . The Trustee Toolkit The Trustee toolkit is hosted on our behalf by a third party. The third party has been carefully selected by the regulator, and is contractually bound to handle your information in the same manner as the regulator. Use of cookies We use 'cookies' which are pieces of data created and stored on your hard drive when you use our online services. Find out more about how we use cookies . Back to top Copyright and intellectual property The services and website and all the materials contained in it are protected by intellectual property rights, including copyright, and either belong to the regulator or are licensed to it to use. Materials include, but are not limited to, the design, layout, look, appearance, graphics and documents on the website, as well as other content. We have made the services and website available to you for your own personal non-commercial use. We may modify, withdraw or deny access to this website at any time. Any use of materials on this website including but not limited to reproduction for any purpose and modification, distribution or republication should acknowledge the regulator as the source and will be subject to intellectual property rights that attach to such materials. The Trustee toolkit – the information provided in modules, tutorials and other learning resources on this website are provided solely as an educational tool. Liability Whilst every effort is made by the regulator (and its authorised subcontractors) to keep secure information submitted to you, you accept the risk that data transmitted electronically via this website or otherwise may be intercepted before reaching its intended destination or accessed by unauthorised third parties and may be exploited unlawfully by such parties. We are not liable for any harm, loss or damage, howsoever caused, occasioned to you from using these services. 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
Code in force: September 2013 Guidance available with this code This code and guidance sets out how managers of personal pension schemes should monitor the payment of contributions, provide information to help members to check contributions and report material payment failures to the regulator. 07: Trustee knowledge and understanding (TKU) Code in force: November 2009 This code is designed to help trustees by setting out what is meant by knowledge and understanding in the legislation and the scope of the knowledge and understanding requirements Code in force: November 2006 Guidance available with this code The purpose of this code is to help trustees of occupational pension schemes to put in place and implement arrangements to provide that at least one-third of the trustees are member-nominated trustees Code in force: November 2006 Guidance available with this code This code sets out the regulator's expectations of how occupational pension schemes should satisfy the legal requirement to have adequate internal controls in place Code in force: January 2007 This code aims to assist anyone seeking to modify an occupational pension scheme to discharge their duties 11: Dispute resolution - reasonable periods Code in force: July 2008 This code of practice provides practical examples on the Pensions Regulator's expectation of the reasonable time periods stated in the legislation related to dispute resolution Code in force: June 2009 Guidance available with this code It sets out the circumstances in which the regulator expects to issue a contribution notice as a result of being of the opinion that the material detriment test is met. 13: Governance and administration of occupational defined contribution trust-based schemes Code in force: November 2013 This code of practice sets out the legal requirements and standards of governance and administration that trustees of occupational defined contribution (DC) trust-based schemes need to attain. Share this page using: 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Employers Employers have new legal duties to automatically enrol certain members of staff into a pension scheme and make contributions towards it. Guidance and tools to help you choose and run a good quality pension scheme. 
Automatic enrolment - act now A lifetime's savings can be lost in a moment Pension scams are on the increase in the UK. Check the facts before you make an irreversible decision. Pension scams. Don’t get stung. Your role in the future of defined contribution Use our new tools to demonstrate the quality of your defined contribution (DC) pension scheme to employers and scheme members. Find out how to assess your scheme Striking the balance for your defined benefit scheme Use our revised code to ensure your defined benefit (DB) pension scheme is run and funded effectively in order to meet its promises. 
Research and analysis relating to defined contribution (DC) pension schemes. DC trust DC trust is an annual publication giving a high-level snapshot of the trust-based DC and hybrid landscape. We recommend that you use the most recent version of DC trust as it includes data for the past five years. Reports DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2013 - 2014 Published: January 2014 The Pensions Regulator's annual statistics on occupational defined contribution (DC) trust-based pension schemes and memberships, including DC memberships of hybrid dual-section schemes. DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2012 - 2013 Published: January 2013 This is an annual statistics release which makes available data held by the regulator on occupational trust-based defined contribution DC pension schemes and memberships (including DC memberships of hybrid dual-section schemes). DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2011 - 2012 Published: November 2011 This is an annual statistics release which makes available data held by The Pensions Regulator on occupational trust-based DC pension schemes and memberships (including DC memberships of hybrid dual-section schemes). DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2010 - 2011 (PDF, 728kb, 51 pages) Published: October 2010 The regulator's second analysis of DC trust-based schemes demonstrating the wide range of DC provision in the current market. DC trust: a presentation of scheme return data 2009 - 2010 (PDF, 749kb, 58 pages) Published: July 2009 The first edition of a yearly publication providing a snapshot of the current trust-based DC and hybrid landscape. Information is based on a wide-ranging dataset covering around 55,000 current and 45,000 wound-up schemes. DC features Research conducted by The Pensions Regulator on the DC trust-based pension scheme features. Reports 
Closing a scheme Help your clients prepare for automatic enrolment Whether you're a payroll professional, bookkeeper, independent financial adviser or accountant, a change in the law means that your clients may ask you about workplace pensions. Make sure you're prepared. Not sure where to start? What is automatic enrolment and what will my clients need to do? Our research tells us that at least 78% of small businesses will be relying on their business adviser for help. We send all employers an essential guide to help them get started. This guide will help you understand the basics before they come to you. View the essential guide to automatic enrolment . How do I help my clients prepare? The first thing you'll need to know to help your clients prepare is their staging date. When you know this you can help your clients understand what they need to do and by when. Help your clients comply with their duties You can help your clients comply with their duties by understanding the changes to workplace pensions law. 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Complete and accurate record-keeping: your role Trustees and administrators have a vital role to play in ensuring defined contribution (DC) pension schemes have complete and accurate records. Good quality member data Record-keeping is at the heart of a good quality pension scheme. Poor data can have a major impact on members and cost a lot of time and money to fix. Having complete and accurate member data forms a part of the 31 quality features that we expect to see in well-managed DC schemes. Record-keeping continues to be one of our main areas of focus. We have recently opened a number of cases into schemes where we needed to investigate further their standards of record-keeping. Trustees and administrators need to work together effectively to ensure that schemes have complete and accurate member data that is reviewed regularly. Trustees Even if you outsource the management of your scheme data to an administrator, you are responsible for the quality of that data. For good practice tips, including working effectively with an administrator, read our quick guide to record-keeping: 
Information to put into your software Key points You’ll need to know which of your staff you have to automatically enrol and which will have a right to request to join, and you’ll need software to help you do this. The software will need to monitor the ages and earnings of your staff and tell you what you need to do with each member of staff. You should test that your software works before your staging date. You’ll need to do a data cleansing exercise to make sure your records are up to date. Automatic enrolment functionality The functionality needed to help you assess whether your staff should be automatically enrolled may already be built into the payroll software you use. Or the person who does your payroll for you may already have appropriate software. You should check with your software or payroll provider to see if your current systems will work out who you have to automatically enrol. Back to top Questions to ask software providers You need to find out if your software can identify whether you have staff that you will need to automatically enrol. If you don’t have access to the necessary software, you will need to get it. When speaking to your existing software provider or selecting new software, you should ask whether the system: assesses your workforce allows the use of postponement calculates pension contributions handles opt outs and refunds supports you in generating and issuing letters to your staff keeps records and provide reports interoperates with some or all pension scheme provider systems. If you are selecting new software you should ensure that it is compatible with your existing systems. Back to top Information to put into your software Having got the right software in place, you’ll need to know how to use it before you get to your staging date. This means understanding: what information you need to put in how to configure it what outputs the software will give and how. You’ll need to test your software ahead of your staging date to ensure you understand how it works. And to check that you know where to find all the information you’ll need. Maintaining up-to-date records It is crucial that you hold accurate information about your staff, their personal and address information and the contributions that have been made on their behalf. Inaccurate records or missing data can have serious consequences, which can include staff being automatically enrolled at the wrong time, information about automatic enrolment not getting to the staff member, and the wrong amount being paid to your staff at retirement. It is your responsibility to ensure that records are correct and up-to-date. 
Detailed guidance Key points Ensure that your clients’ defined contribution (DC) schemes have an appropriate investment strategy and offer suitable investment options. Ensure your clients monitor and review that the investment options continue to be suitable for members and meet their objectives. Ensure there are measures in place to protect scheme assets. Setting investment strategy Ensure that your clients’ schemes: have an appropriate investment strategy and investment objectives, including a statement of investment principles offer a default strategy for members who don’t want to choose their own investments offer suitable investment options for members who want to make their own decisions communicate regularly with members about their investment choices – for more information about providing good quality communications, see member communication . Providing investment funds If you’re responsible for advising trustees on their choice of funds, you should ensure your clients devote sufficient time to: understanding the objectives of each investment fund understanding fund costs and charges documenting information about fund objectives, costs and charges communicating fund information to members ensuring the number and risk profile of funds offered as an alternative to the default strategy meets the needs of the membership. You should obtain enough information from investment managers so that you’re satisfied your clients can demonstrate that they’ve understood the issues above and factored them into their solution and range of products. Back to top Reviewing investment strategy and fund performance Your clients may ask you to help monitor and review that the default strategy and other investment options continue to be suitable for all members (including deferred). You should also check that all investment options meet their investment objectives. Your clients should review the default strategy when certain events occur, eg changes to the membership demographics or sustained changes in market conditions. Your clients should decide how often to review each investment fund and the type of review. They should base their decision on factors such as size, value and type of fund. They should consider setting mechanical triggers, eg to identify whether a fund is underperforming against its benchmark. They should make sure triggers are appropriate to the long-term nature of pension scheme investments. You should advise them to: assess fund performance against objectives compare fund returns to industry benchmarks check that fund fees are competitive monitor levels of portfolio turnover ensure there are controls to alert them to potential risks ensure they assess regularly the investment decision-making and governance process. If the trustees (using your advice) decide to change investment funds or investment manager, you need to consider the most suitable transition option. Protecting scheme assets Ensure that your clients’ schemes: invest predominantly in assets regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority or a similar overseas regulatory authority assess the compensation and protection arrangements for the scheme’s investment funds and products consider mitigation, eg insurance or financial guarantees, if investments with inadequate protection are kept balance the risks associated with illiquid assets with their potential for higher investment returns. Back to top Detailed guidance Investment section of the DC code : provides guidance on setting investment strategy, reviewing fund performance and protecting scheme assets. 
Key points Advise trustees to review the schedule of contributions regularly and revise it when necessary. Advise trustees to check together with their administrators that contributions are paid into defined benefit (DB) schemes according to the schedule of contributions. Make sure that trustees contact employers promptly to alert them about a payment failure and to try and resolve it. Advise trustees to report material late payments to us and/or consider whether to make a report yourself. Advise employers on paying the correct contributions and when to pass information to trustees. Schedule of contributions Trustees must produce a schedule showing the rates of contributions payable to the scheme by or on behalf of the employer and scheme members who are accruing benefits, and the dates by which those contributions are payable. You should advise trustees to review the schedule regularly and revise it when necessary. The scheme actuary must certify the schedule. When you advise on the content of a schedule of contributions, you should advise the trustees to ensure that it: is clear enough to enable trustees to monitor payments is drafted to avoid, as far as possible, the need to refer to other scheme documents doesn’t show any due date for member contributions later than the 22nd day of the month following deduction from pay (or the 19th day if payments aren’t made electronically) avoids referring to the contributions covering individual augmentations or general benefit improvements, unless these were planned and due to be paid when the schedule of contributions was certified. Schedules may contain contributions to repair a funding deficit as an additional percentage of pensionable pay. Back to top Monitoring contributions You should advise trustees to check that contributions are paid into the scheme according to the schedule of contributions and to have procedures for checking contributions are paid, including reconciling them with the schedule of contributions. Good record-keeping and adequate internal controls ensure that the scheme and the schedule of contributions are administered, maintained and managed according to the scheme rules and legal requirements. You should advise trustees to record and keep information on transactions. Back to top Resolving late payments Where a payment failure occurs, you or the trustees should have an agreed process for liaising with the employer promptly to alert them about the failure and to try and resolve it. You may need to assist the trustees to find out and record the causes and circumstances of the payment failure. You should help trustees to ensure there’s a process for obtaining overdue payments and correcting administrative errors. You or the trustees need to report a material late payment to us, usually within 10 working days of having reasonable cause to believe that it exists. You should advise the trustees to report to us using our online service Exchange . Where there is a current or imminent danger to the payments if immediate preventative action isn’t taken, you should advise the trustees to report the failure to us by telephone as soon as you become aware of it. The trustees must report the material late payment to members within 30 days of it being reported to us. Circumstances which are likely to be material and which should be reported to us include where: there’s reasonable cause to believe that the employer isn’t willing or able to pay the outstanding contributions the reminder and recovery process has been completed without obtaining the outstanding payment there is possible dishonesty or misuse of assets or contributions the trustees become aware that the employer doesn’t have adequate procedures or systems in place to ensure the correct and timely payment of contributions, and the employer doesn’t appear to be taking adequate steps to remedy the situation there is an immediate risk to members’ benefits contributions have been outstanding for 90 days from the due date, unless it’s an infrequent administrative error that’s already corrected or will be as soon as reasonably practicable. Back to top Advising on employer matters An employer must contribute in line with the schedule of contributions for their scheme. If you advise an employer you are likely to need to make sure they are aware of this responsibility and the need to have systems in place to ensure contributions are paid appropriately. You should also ensure that the employer understands when they need to pass information to the trustees so that they are aware of changes affecting the contributions due to be paid. 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site Ensure your DB scheme is run and funded effectively Our revised defined benefit (DB) code has now come into force. You should use the code to ensure your DB pension scheme is run and funded effectively in order to meet its promises. The code emphasises the importance of trustees and employers working together to strike a balance which supports both the scheme's aim to provide pensions for members and the employer's need to invest in sustainable business growth. It also focuses on taking an integrated approach to managing the main risks that influence a scheme’s chances of paying its benefits in full. Trustees, employers and professionals from the wider pension community should familiarise themselves with the revised code to ensure that it’s implemented in a balanced way for their scheme. If you’re currently undertaking a scheme valuation you should consider whether it’s in line with the principles of the updated code. Trustees You should work openly and transparently with the sponsoring employer to ensure your scheme is run and funded effectively. In order to have the best chance to be in a position to pay members' benefits, you will need to manage risks to the scheme and understand how they affect each other. 
What do I do if I'm not sure of the benefit type of the scheme? The benefit type of your scheme will be one of the following three types: defined benefit (DB) - offers a pension based on how much a member earns and how long they are an employed member of the pension scheme defined contribution (DC) - offers a pension based on value of the fund that has accrued as a result of contributions that have been made together with the investment returns hybrid scheme - a combination of DC and DB. Please refer to your scheme trust deed and rules which should indicate the benefit structure of your scheme. What do we mean by active, deferred and pensioner members? Broadly active, deferred and pensioner members are: Active members: members of an occupational pension scheme who are at present accruing benefits under that scheme in respect of current service. Deferred members: members of an occupational scheme who have accrued benefits under that scheme relating to their past service and who are no longer active members but have not yet retired. These members may continue to work for the employer, or have left the employment of the employer associated with the scheme. This category of membership will remain until every individual in that category either transfers their pension entitlement to an alternative pension arrangement or starts to take their pension entitlement as a retirement pension. Pensioner members: members who are entitled to payment of a retirement benefit that is payable by the trustees or managers of the pension scheme in respect of their pensionable service. This will include individual annuities in payment where the annuity is written in the name of the trustees or managers of the scheme. A member who has taken their pension entitlement by purchasing an annuity in their own name is not classed a pensioner member. Is it still necessary to complete a scheme return if my scheme is winding up? Yes. You're still legally required to complete a scheme return even if your scheme is in the process of winding up. However, you’re not expected to complete a scheme return if your scheme has fully wound up. You can notify us if your scheme has been wound up by completing the initial questions in Exchange. If your scheme is winding up and you're experiencing problems with completing your scheme return contact us . Further scheme return guidance What do I do if I receive an overdue notice but not the initial scheme return notice? We issue a scheme return notice to the contact listed in our records at the time it's issued. If you’ve updated your scheme return contact since the original notice was issued an overdue notice is sent to the new contact. The overdue notice has all the information you need to login to Exchange to complete the scheme return. You don’t need to have the original scheme return notice to complete your scheme return. What do I do if I receive a scheme return notice for a scheme I don't recognise? If you receive a scheme return notice for a scheme you don't recognise contact us . What should I do if I complete the scheme return for the wrong scheme? Log back into Exchange and amend the information. If you're unable to do this please contact us . Do I need to complete a return for The Pensions Regulator if I complete a return for HMRC? Yes. The HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) scheme return is entirely separate to The Pensions Regulator's scheme return. We collect data for different purposes to HMRC. After you complete your scheme return What happens after I submit the scheme return? Once you have submitted your scheme return you will receive a confirmation email (the email is sent to the Exchange user account from which the scheme return was submitted). Trustees (and managers) are legally required to notify us of any changes to their registrable information. This includes changes to the following details: name and / or address of the scheme employer or trustee scheme's status number of scheme members. You can access your scheme information via Exchange at any time to update any information that has changed. Keeping your scheme information up to date will also help you complete your scheme return more quickly and efficiently. Can I change any information on the scheme return after I submit it? Trustees (and managers) are legally required to notify us of any changes to their registrable information. This includes changes to the following details: name and / or address of the scheme employer or trustee scheme's status number of scheme members. You can access your scheme information via Exchange at any time to update information that has changed. Keeping your scheme information up to date will also help you complete your scheme return more quickly and efficiently. In the past you may have used form PR10 to let us know of any changes. However, you can now access this online scheme maintenance system at any time, enabling you to update your scheme information with changes as and when they happen. You no longer need to complete a form PR10. 
The areas of defined benefit (DB) scheme management key to ensuring a well-run and well-funded scheme. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit We provide a free online learning programme called the Trustee toolkit which you should complete, unless you arrange the equivalent learning. You must login or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. 
Closing a scheme Does your existing scheme qualify? If you want to continue using your existing pension scheme you need to check that it meets the qualifying criteria. If it does qualify, you can carry on using it as normal for existing scheme members. If you want to use it to automatically enrol new members, it will need to meet some additional criteria. If you don’t have an existing pension scheme that you can use, you’ll need to choose a new one. Go to finding a provider. On this page Detailed guidance Key points Use our tool to assess whether your existing defined contribution (DC) scheme qualifies and if you can use it for automatic enrolment. If you have a defined benefit (DB) or hybrid scheme, speak to the scheme trustees. DC qualifying scheme tool You need to check whether your existing DC scheme qualifies and if you can use it for automatic enrolment. Our DC qualifying schemes tool will guide you through the areas you need to look at to make an informed decision. Because every scheme is different, the tool is unable to tell you whether your particular scheme meets the criteria. You will need to work out whether you can use your scheme. If you don’t feel confident about deciding whether your scheme meets the criteria, you should ask the trustees or scheme provider running it. Back to top DB and hybrid schemes Qualifying criteria for DB and hybrid schemes are complex. Speak to your trustees to check whether your scheme qualifies. 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
Closing a scheme Understand and inform your clients' workforce To help automatically enrol your clients workforce you’ll need to understand the type of workforce they have and what communications will need to be sent to them. 
Independent trustee register Detailed guidance for trustees To carry out your role as a trustee effectively, you need to be aware of pensions legislation, trust law and good practice. The Pensions Regulator produces different types of detailed guidance that can help you understand legal requirements and follow good practice. On this page Key points Use our Trustee toolkit (or equivalent) to gain the required trustee knowledge and understanding. Codes of practice set out practical guidance and standards of conduct and practice that you must meet under pensions legislation. Code-related guidance provides further detail on areas covered by codes of practice. Regulatory guidance helps you understand what pensions legislation requires and what is good practice in the governance and administration of pension schemes. Trustee toolkit The Trustee toolkit is a key source of knowledge and understanding for trustees. It’s a free online training course that addresses the knowledge and understanding required by trustees. Within six months of becoming a trustee you must either complete the Trustee toolkit or be able to demonstrate how else you have gained the required knowledge and understanding, such as having a Pensions Management Institute qualification or equivalent knowledge. Directors of corporate trustees should also ensure they meet the trustee knowledge and understanding requirements. You can also use the Trustee toolkit for: refresher training on areas of scheme governance and administration that you’re less familiar with professional development keeping up to date with changes to legal requirements and good practice. Trustee toolkit online learning Go to the Trustee toolkit We provide a free online learning programme called the Trustee toolkit which you should complete, unless you arrange the equivalent learning.  You must login or sign up to use the Trustee toolkit. Back to top Codes of practice Codes of practice provide practical guidelines on the requirements of pensions legislation. They set out standards of conduct and practice that you must meet. You don’t have to follow a code of practice in every circumstance. However, you must ensure that any alternative approach meets the requirements of the legislation underpinning the code of practice. If we issue an improvement notice we may direct you to take, or refrain from taking, steps based on the provisions of a code of practice. Some codes apply to all schemes, eg trustee knowledge and understanding , some apply to defined contribution (DC) schemes, eg the DC code , and some apply to defined benefit (DB) schemes, eg funding defined benefits . Back to top Code-related guidance Some codes of practice need further explanation on areas that they cover. This detail is contained within code-related guidance . For example, the code-related guidance on complying with the duty to report breaches of the law contains examples of when you do and don’t need to report breaches to us. Back to top Regulatory guidance Regulatory guidance is good practice guidance that provides information, education and assistance. It is intended to help you understand what pensions legislation requires and what is good practice in the governance and administration of pension schemes. Some regulatory guidance applies to all schemes, eg record-keeping , some applies to DC schemes, eg the DC regulatory guidance , and some applies to DB schemes, eg clearance . 
Workplace pensions law has changed and every employer must comply. Find out more . Featured report This is a rolling report starting from July 2012 which we update monthly Search site 
