Excellence Framework Responsiveness to Customers and Stakeholders Greater understanding between regulatory services and the businesses they monitor brings benefits for both parties. This removes cultural barriers to communication, strengthens working relationships, encourages mutual trust and promotes a partnership approach to achieving compliance. Officers now have the opportunity to step into their customers’ commercial shoes via Trading Places. Study visits arranged at UK companies of all sizes offer great practical learning experiences, plus valuable insight into how businesses are run and the challenges they can face. Shared learning is encouraged by bringing together people from the private and public sectors, with the involvement of national regulators. Trading Places is open to all environmental health, fire safety, licensing and trading standards officers working in local authorities, as well as businesses from any sector. It is free and carries CPD points. It was launched in March 2009 after extensive testing and evaluation, and is endorsed by the CBI, the FSB, the British Chambers of Commerce, the British Retail Consortium, the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health and the Trading Standards Institute. The following links lead to an overview of Trading Places, two podcasts in which local authority and business representatives discuss why they support the initiative, the list of forthcoming business placements, and the registration forms. Please complete the relevant one to participate. 
Sample Pathways Resources for Regulators This website was originally created at the request of the Welsh Government by the Local Better Regulation Office, which was dissolved on 1 April 2012. Its functions are now exercised by the Better Regulation Delivery Office, an independent unit within the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. Consequently, all the content on this website, with the exception of the interactive outcomes and impacts pathway tool and its associated resources, was transferred to the BIS website, a link to which is provided below. 
Site Usage Professional Competency An ongoing collaborative project is introducing common regulatory competence standards for the professionals undertaking local regulation. The work is being led by LBRO in partnership with the World Class Coalition, which comprises 18 professional and representative bodies, including national regulators. The overall approach to competency is closely linked with the relevant qualifications frameworks provided by the professional bodies - including the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health and the Trading Standards Institute - and supported by the key players in the local and national regulatory landscape, giving transparency and confidence to all. The first competency frameworks were launched in November 2011 and continue to evolve, shaped by users and stakeholders. The aim is to ensure that the development needs of regulators in local authorities and elsewhere are identified and addressed: through self-assessment; via simple, flexible and user friendly web-based tools that can be used in conjunction with existing approaches; with access to innovative and cost-effective solutions for meeting development needs; and as an integral part of continuous professional development. The overall approach to competency has already proved rigorous and flexible. It has been used successfully since 2009 by the Health and Safety Executive and health and safety regulators at most local authorities in Great Britain. Its key features are: core, generic regulatory skills and leadership skills sections; technical knowledge sections, specific to areas of regulation; the Guidance for Regulators - Information Point (GRIP) , designed to help meet development needs identified; and a development process for regulators and managers. Further information is provided in the documents below: 

