Registered files of the Better Regulation Commission.
This series contains copies of byelaws of railway companies, including those applicable in railway owned and/or operated docks and harbours and issued under their names. The series also includes an 1868 copy of the Shropshire Union Railways canal byelaws. Arrangement: The former London and York series have been amalgamated in the one series, arranged in alphabetical order of railway companies
This series contains registered files of the Radiocommunications Agency (RA) concerning radio regulation. There are 46 record series containing Governance records for the RA's main management and policy making committees Policy files and evidence of major UK and international decisions/agreements and for individual aspects of work on all functions, covering: agency management; frequency planning and allocation; international liaison; spectrum deregulation and pricing; technology; product development and licensing for sectors of frequency use; broadcasting spectrum; enforcement (may include significant case files). Administrative history: In 1918 the Wireless Telegraphy Board (the first UK interdepartmental committee) was set up to co-ordinate interference problems affecting radio communications in the English Channel. In 1939 it became known as the British Joint Communications Board (BJCB), and after 1945 the British Joint Communications-Electronics Board, incorporating the Joint Frequency Planning Panel (JFPP). The 1949 Wireless Telegraphy Act allocated responsibility for the management of the radio spectrum to the General Post Office, latterly under the GPO Engineering Department. The Post Office Act 1969 separated the operational and governmental functions of the Post Office. The GPO Engineering Department was transferred to the new Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) headed by the Director of Radio Technology. Policy governing the national planning, allocation and assignment of radio frequencies was shared across various Government departments, acting through the medium of committees. Harold Wilson's ministerial re-organisation in 1974 abolished the MPT, whose functions were transferred into the Home Office as the Radio Regulatory Department of the Home Office, was made up of two sections, the Directorate of Radio Technology (DRT), which provided technical expertise, and the Radio Regulatory Division which regulated the use of the radio frequency spectrum within the UK. In 1983 the Radio Regulatory Department was moved to the Department of Trade and Industry, which was already responsible for telecommunications, information technology and innovation. Its name then became the Radio Regulatory Division. In 1986 a further name change turned it into the Radiocommunications Division. On 2 April 1990, the Division was launched as the Radiocommunications Agency, under the Government's Next Steps programme. On 29 December 2003 the Radiocommunications Agency merged with four other communications regulators to form the Office of Communications, known as Ofcom.
Volumes of office regulations and procedure.
This series contains copies and originals of regulations approved by British and French High Commissioners for use in the Condominium of the New Hebrides arising from a convention signed in 1906 for the settlement of land claims, etc.
This series contains the annual reports of the Rail Regulator to the Secretary of State for Transport.
This series contains annual reports of the Office of Electricity Regulation.
This series contains copies of byelaws of canal, dock, and harbour undertakings, including some controlled by the railway companies and issued under their names. Many pieces relate to docks and harbours. Some items include information on penalties for infringement of the byelaws. Arrangement: The London and York series have been amalgamated in the one series, arranged in alphabetical order by canal and dock names.
This series contains king's regulations relating to the Western Pacific.
This series contains the publications of the Office of the Rail Regulator and includes material relating to competition, guidance on the licensing of rail service operators, track access agreements and charges, disabled passengers and the retailing of tickets.
This series consists of records relating to regulations and classification of goods.
Papers of the Advisory Committee on Defence Regulation 18B, comprising mainly transcripts of its hearings of individual cases of detainees. These concern Sir Oswald Mosley's appeal against his detention during the Second World War and include papers of Norman Birkett, KC, concerning the British Union of Fascists. Administrative history: Defence regulation 18B was introduced by the Defence (General) Regulations 1939 (Miscellaneous Amendments) Order SR&O 1939/978 issued under the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act 1939. Order 1939/978 was superseded by the Defence (General) Regulations 1939 (Miscellaneous Amendments) Order SR&O 1939/1681. Regulation 18B empowered the Secretary of State to detain any person whom he had reasonable cause to believe to be 'of hostile origin or association or to have been recently concerned in acts prejudicial to the public safety or defence of the realm', provided that any such person was given the opportunity to make representations to an advisory committee appointed by the Secretary of State. Regulation 18B applied equally to British and foreign nationals but in practice it came to be used almost exclusively for the detention of British subjects (or persons of dual nationality). Nationals of friendly or neutral countries considered dangerous or disreputable could be detained under Article 12(5A) of the Aliens Order 1920 (as amended by the Aliens Order 1940) and enemy aliens were simply interned under the Royal Prerogative. The Advisory Committee was appointed by the Secretary of State on 14 September 1939 under the Chairmanship of Sir Walter Monckton KC and with G P Churchill as Secretary. The first meeting, to decide on questions of principle, was held on 21 September 1939 and the first appeals were heard on 25 September 1939. Monckton was succeeded as Chairman of the Committee on 13 October 1939 by Norman Birkett KC who continued to serve as Chairman until regulation 18B was revoked on 9 May 1945, and the Committee came to an end. As the number of persons being detained increased, the Advisory Committee formed separate panels, each with its own Chairman, to deal with the increased workload. There was also a separate Scottish Advisory Committee, under the Chairmanship of Lord Alness and subsequently of Lord Jamieson, for the examination of cases north or the border and a Scottish (Italian) Committee, under the Chairmanship of J L Clyde KC, for the examination of the cases of British-Italian dual nationals resident in Scotland at the time of their detention Arrangement: Each case is cross-referred to the related piece in series HO 45 containing background information, police and security service reports and the reasons for detention.
All records preserved relate to the review and revision of regulations regarding the use of sewage sludge in agriculture. Administrative history: Created in 1997 in the DETR from the previous functions of the Dept of Environment, the Water Quality Division was responsible for matters relating to the treatment of sewage sludge on the WS file series. On the creation of Defra in 2001 this function transferred into Defra, retaining the name of the responsible branch as Water Quality Division. Responsibility now lies with Water Quality Ongoing Branch of Water Availability and Quality Division.
This series consists of records relating to regulations and classification of goods.
Entry books from the office of the Secretary-at-War of royal warrants countersigned by the Secretary-at-War relating to the formation, recruitment and disbandment of regiments and companies, and for the assignment of moneys for various military purposes; of regulations made by the Board of General Officers for the clothing of the forces; and of letters and reports to the Secretary-at-War serving as precedents. Arrangement: The entries, particularly for the earlier period, do not appear to have been made with any regularity, and there is some overlapping in dates of the volumes.
Agenda and minutes of meetings of the Central Price Regulation Committee and one of the Local Price Regulation Committees (Leeds) and files of the central committee.
This series consists of schemes of regulation relating to Welsh commons made by the Secretary of State for Wales under the Commons Act 1899, which regulated the use of commons. The piece descriptions give the names of counties and the relevant commons.
This series contains files relating to policy work including: oversight of the regulations of the financial services sector and investor protection implementation; monitoring of the Financial Services Act 1986; regulation and implementation of the EC Directive in the financial services area and issues of market access. Administrative history: Records within this series were created by the Securities and Investment Services Group in 1991. The Group was positioned under the Public Finance sector, before its functions were transferred to the Finance Regulation and Industry Group in 1995. Arrangement: The records are arranged chronologically in file prefix order. Note: Uncertainity of creator at time of transfer to The National Archives.

These were issued to railway staff on recruitment and relate to the general and safe working of the railways.
This series contains files related to the legal requirements and regulations covering the labelling of food. The lists of subjects covers: Implementation of various EC Directives relating to food regulations; Consolidation of 1996 food labelling regulations; Taking forward of the Food Labelling Action Plan; Better Labelling Initiative; Consultation and communications with various industry bodies and public; Review of Farm Assurance Scheme Proposals to prohibit certain pesticides in agricultural products used to manufacture infant formula and baby foods; Successor to Consumer Panel on creation of FSA.
This series contains copies of the regulations, rules and memoranda set by the Civil Service Commission for competition for entry into the Civil Service, both the diplomatic service and the home service, and for civilian posts in the armed forces. The records cover both the open and limited competitions for non-industrial staff. There is often an overlap in the coverage of the material but the following distinctions are generally true. Regulations detail procedure for application and appointment. Information pertaining to application includes the date of the examination, or interview, and the final date (when one is mentioned) that the application had to reach the Commission. Requirements of the prospective candidate might include educational qualifications; proven experience; limits of age, race, nationality, gender or marital status; sound health; acceptance of an overseas posting or future redeployment. These requirements reflect the social, legal and ethical conditions that the Commission was bound by at a specific time. Rules explain the format of examinations and give an indication of what candidates might expect and what was expected of them. Memoranda frequently contain similar information but as amendments to existing regulations or rules. They are also used as a reminder to staff of the sequence of events leading up to a given examination or interview. Arrangement: The filing and arrangement of the records has been inconsistent and not always intelligible. This may be owing to changes in recruitment policy and thereby changes in the way documents were referenced or accessed, but at times it appears to have been simply poor filing practice. Each competition was assigned a paper number and listed. Paper numbers tend to reflect the contemporary method of arrangement. This practice was abandoned with CSC 6/79. Between CSC 6/1 and CSC 6/43 documents are arranged by date of examination or the date of memorandum. Each piece covers a period from one year up to a span of several. For CSC 6/44 -52 this is simplified to papers being arranged by month. Here a piece is equal to a year. From 1947 ( CSC 6/53 ) until 1963 ( CSC 6/68 ) the order of documents within piece numbers alters frequently. During this period competition numbers for each vacancy are introduced and letter prefixes (a short-hand reference to a broad area, such as 'S' for Science) to these begin to appear. Broadly speaking, between CSC 6/53 and CSC 6/62 the documents are arranged by month but with a general section (which becomes increasingly larger) placed first consisting of non-specified date, reconstruction and limited competitions. Between CSC 6/63 and CSC 6/68 arrangement by month is not consistently used (sometimes replaced with no obvious form of arrangement). From 1964 ( CSC 6/69 ) the arrangement of the records begins to settle. CSC 6/69 -73 are arranged by month. From CSC 6/74 to CSC 6/78 there is a sub-arrangement by competion number within arrangement by month (this now clearly being based upon closing date for application). CSC 6/79 to CSC 6/81 follow the same arrangement but are listed only by month and paper numbers. From CSC 6/82 the sheer bulk of documents meant that paper numbers were abandoned as too time consuming but the arrangement by month and sub-arrangement by competion numbers were retained. From CSC 6/90 a piece is usually equal to half a year.
This series consists of registered files of the Building Regulations Administrative Division. The files deal with legislation and regulations in the field of building regulation and control, including fire prevention, proposed new building control legislation on accidents resulting from demolition of buildings; ventilation and design of buildings and appliances, and the design of public conveniences for disabled. The role of the Agrément Board in building regulations is also included. The series includes some earlier files which were re-registered into the BRA series files from the H8 series: HLG 118 Includes files re-registered from RB file series in WORK 75. Administrative history: The Public Health Act 1961 introduced national building regulations and responsibility for these passed to the Ministry of Public Building and Works in 1964. In 1966 responsibility transferred to Housing Division H8 in the Ministry of Housing and Local Government; and then in 1973 to the Building Regulations Administrative Division, within the Department of the Environment. Arrangement: The files in this series have been transferred in more than one batch. They are arranged in previous reference order within each accession.
This series contains files regarding banking and financial services in Gibraltar, financial sanctions and asset freezing and regulation in dependent territories. Administrative history: The division was created in 1995 and inherited functions from a number of divisions, including the International Market Access Questions [IMAQ] Division. Arrangement: Files are listed chronologically in file prefix order.
This series consists of papers concerning the insurance, licensing, registration and taxation of motor vehicles.
These contain specialised instructions for the various grades of railway staff.
This series covers policy work on roads, local transport, ports, shipping, marine; Home Office and Legal Departments. Administrative history: Transport and Education Division formed in 1984 and closed in 1993.
This series contains schemes approved by the Minister of Land and Natural Resources for regulating the use of commons other than those in the Metropolitan area. The schemes also contain maps.
This series contains records relating to the development of policy and legislation to cover the England Rural Development Programme (ERDP), its activities and schemes together with financing matters and evaluation, strategy for agriculture which outlines progress on the delivery of the plan for agriculture in the UK and the launch and development of the Rural Enterprise and Processing and Marketing Schemes. It also includes minutes and supporting documents of the England Rural Development Programme Ministerial Board, which considers all policy and legislative aspects of the programme. Administrative history: The England Rural Development Programme was a programme of activities managed by the Regional Delivery and Communications Team and designed to contribute to the delivery of the Government's Strategy for Sustainable Farming and Food by helping farmers and foresters to respond better to consumer requirements and become more competitive, diverse, flexible and environmentally responsible. It also provided help to rural businesses and communities which needed to adapt and develop. The programme provided a framework for the operation of separate but integrated schemes which furnished opportunities to protect and improve the countryside, to develop sustainable enterprises and to help rural communities to thrive. A total of £1.6 billion of EU and UK Government money was made available under these schemes in England during the seven years of the programme (2000-2006).
This series comprises schemes made under the Metropolitan Commons Act 1866 to 1898 for regulating the use of commons in the metropolitan area. They include a scheme for Mousehold Heath under the City of Norwich Act 1867.
The records in this series primarily concern policy relating to the United Kingdom Continental Shelf and its ongoing development. Other issues relate to oil companies within the UK and overseas, and oil policy in general. Administrative history: The Energy Division was created under the Public Enterprises Group from the Division which was dissolved in 1985. It was renamed the Energy and Supply Division in 1992 and the Energy Competition and Regulation Division in 1993. Arrangement: The records are arranged chronologically in file prefix order.
This series contains files documenting the development and review of policy and regulations that the Health and Safety Commission (HSC) and Health and Safety Executive (HSE) had lead responsibility for. Includes (but not limited to) policy and regulations for: Strategic Planning for Occupational Health and Safety; Field Operations/Inspections; Nuclear Safety. Administrative history: The file series was maintained within the Health and Safety Executive by a branch within the Strategy and General Division. The Directorate for Information and Advisory Services had custodial responsibility for the files. Arrangement: The series is arranged in file reference order.

Papers created in the Statistical Section of the National Dock Labour Board (NDLB). The papers relate to the preparation of, and the reorganisation consequent to, the Dock Work Regulation Act 1976 which as well as making provisions with regard to the powers of the NDLB and the classification of dock work, reconstituted the NDLB as a statutory corporation. They include papers relating to the four representative dock areas of Grimsby and Immingham, South Humberside; London; the South Coast; and Cumbria.
This series contains files regarding oversight of the regulations of the financial services sector and investor protection implementation; monitoring of the Financial Services Act 1986; regulation and implementation of [European Community] EC directives in the financial services area and issues of market access. Administrative history: Function transferred from the Department of Trade and Industry. Arrangement: Files are listed chronologically in file prefix order.
Schemes for regulating the use of commons other than those in the metropolitan area under the Commons Act of 1899. The text of each scheme is usually accompanied by a map or plan depicting the affected area. The dates shown in the catalogue entries are the dates when the scheme was signed as approved.
This series contains copies of administrative schemes submitted by council of counties and county boroughs for discharging functions transferred from poor law authorities under the Local Government Act 1929. The series also includes schemes (under s.63 of the Act) and amending schemes (under s.185(6)) of the Public Health Act 1936) relating to the provision of hospital accommodation for infectious diseases; and regulations for domiciliary assistance to blind persons under s.2 of the Blind Persons Act 1920 drawn up by councils pursuant to declarations made in their administrative schemes. Administrative history: The Local Government Act, 1929 (19 and 20 Geo. 5, c.17) was passed to amend the law relating to the administration of poor relief, registration of births, deaths and marriages, highways, town planning and local government. This Act inter alia transferred the functions of the former Poor Law Guardians to county and county borough councils; and S.4 required the latter to prepare and submit to the Minister of Health administrative schemes of the arrangements proposed to be made for discharging the functions thus transferred.
These relate to traffic operations and special technical circumstances or local conditions.
The records in this series consist of registered files created by the Post Office for matters for which the Home Office became responsible after 1974. They are from the General Post Office's central registry P (Preservation) series and the decentralised (from the early 1950s) RB and RD (Radio Branch) registries, pertaining to the regulation of radio transmissions. The files relate to various radio matters including interpretation and implementation of the Wireless Telegraphy Act 1949, policy in respect of the licensing of all types of radio services, control of equipment used, development of radio services, the certification of ship radio officers, the Meteorological Broadcast Service, the regulation of business and private transmissions through licensing, communications at sea, transmissions by Trinity House services, of radio interference, the allocation of frequencies for commercial television, papers relating to the International Telecommunication Union and papers of committees and conferences relating to radio transmission and regulation. The Government's response to illicit radio (pirate radio) was also covered, as was the Independent Television Authority's staff pension scheme. Files also relate to the setting up and the business of various technical and advisory committees on radio matters. Administrative history: Responsibilities passed from the Post Office in 1969 to the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, in 1974 to the Home Office, and in 1983 to the Department of Trade and Industry. Arrangement: Note on Post Office P registry system. P 'minutes' or 'bundles' numbers as they are termed within the Post Office were assigned to papers at any point subsequent to their original registration. The system operated to facilitate the early destruction of ephemeral papers, and also allowed the reregistration forward of earlier papers when a similar piece of business arose subsequently. Consequently there is no correlation between the P number and the original registered number or the subject matter. The second numerical element in the reference indicates the year they had a P number assigned; the first numerical element was the next available plain number for that year, each year recommencing at 1. A small number of WQ and RT prefixed files are included.
This series contains several series of orders etc, some of which were assembled in the Ministry of Defence library, from where they were transferred to the PRO in the late 1980s. The main records are: Army Regulations, 1711-1821; War Office circulars etc, 1797-1887; Adjutant General's general orders, 1792-1887: Ordnance Office general orders, 1805-1857; Quartermaster General's circulars, 1831-1858; Army Orders from the Commander in Chief, 1888-1904; Army Orders from the Army Council, 1904-1964; and Army Orders from the Defence Council since 1964. General Routine Orders for various theatres in the First World War; and for the British Army of the Rhine (BAOR), 1919-1929 and 1945-1990 are also included. The series includes material which would otherwise be found among ( WO ) division: the Records of other administrative departments of the War Office. Administrative history: Until the late nineteenth century orders, instructions and regulations for the government of the British army were issued by several authorities, including the Secretary of State for War, the Commander in Chief, the Adjutant General and his Deputy, the Quarter Master General, and the Ordnance Office (until 1857), and the respective responsibilities of these authorities are not entirely clear. From 1888 Army Orders were issued by order of the Commander in Chief with approval of the Secretary of State for War; then, from 1904, by order of the Army Council.
This series contains specimens (not a scientific sample) of the more significant production support and market regulation case files produced by the Intervention Board in administering the European Union's (formerly the European Economic Community's) common agricultural policy.
Printed regulations regarding conditions of service, duties, uniform and general organisational matters.
This series contains correspondence and papers of the Foods Branches and successor of the Local Government Board and the Ministry of Health relating to the regulation and inspection of food, foodstuffs, shellfish beds and milk, and matters of nutrition. Includes papers of the Departmental Committee on Food Law, 1931 to 1933, the Advisory Committee on Nutrition appointed in 1931, the Standing Committee on Medical and Nutritional Problems (1941-1957) and its successor, the Committee on Medical and Nutritional Aspects of Food Policy (later the Committee on Medical Aspects of Food Policy) appointed in 1957, and other committees. Most of the files were registered in the 93401-93449 series of the Ministry of Health; there are also files registered with numbers in 103000, 110000 and 160000 series and some of these were subsequently re-registered in the 93400 series.
These files are largely concerned with the administration of legislation relating to milk and dairies including the Food and Drugs (Milk and Dairies) Act, 1944; Milk and Dairies Regulations 1949 and the Milk (Special Designations) Regulations, 1949; liaison with the Milk Marketing Board.
The Schedule to the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, as amended by the International Whaling Commission at its first meeting in 1949, and subsequent amendments made at annual and special meetings. For the first four years the Schedule was accompanied by a reprinting of the full text of the 1946 convention. Administrative history: Amendments to the Schedule are governed by Article V of the 1946 International Convention. Amendments must provide for the conservation, development and optimum utilisation of whale resources, must be based on scientific findings, must not involve restrictions on the number or nationality of factory ships or land stations, or allocate specific quotas to factory ships or land stations, and must consider the interests of the consumers of whale products and the whaling industry.
The series contains records relating to the integration of the UK meat and fatstock industry into the systems and regulations operating in the European Economic Community at the time of Britain's accession to the community in 1973.
This series contains registered files of the Economic Regulation Group and its predecessors.
This series contains office handbooks and office regulations pertaining to the Ministry of Health.
This series contains correspondence and papers of the Local Government Board's Metropolis Water Acts and Public Health Departments, relating to the regulating of chemical processes and the licensing of alkali and other chemical works in England, Wales and Ireland, and in Scotland (up to 1855), under the several Alkali Acts. Administrative history: The Alkali Works Inspectorate and an examiner of metropolitan water were taken over from the Board of Trade in 1873 and were under the control of the Metropolis Water Acts Department.
This series contains policy work relating to international market access questions for UK financial services institutions, including bilateral arrangements. Subject covered include reciprocal policy and international liberalisation, including OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development), GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade), EC (European Community) and EFTA (European Free Trade Association) and the British Invisibles Japan Committee. This series contains records which pre-date the creation of the Financial Regulation and Industry Directorate. Administrative history: From the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), the IMAQ series was opened in 1993 and closed in 1998, with its business being transferred to International Financial Services (IFS). Arrangement: Files are listed chronologically in file prefix order.
This series contains papers concerning committees on the subject of holidays with pay, the Holidays with Pay Bill and Act 1938, and subsequent regulations.
Minutes, etc, of District Conference of transport undertakings set up to regulate conveyance rates and arrangements in the Liverpool and Manchester districts.
These records relate to the regulation of taxi cabs, hackney carriages and mini cabs.
Annual reports of the Home Office, Explosives Inspectorate relating to the enforcement of legislation regulating the keeping of explosives.
This series contains the Environment Agency Advisory Committee minutes and papers. The records track the transtional move to merge the National Rivers Authority, Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Pollution, the Waste Regulations authorities (England and Wales), and the London Waste Regulation Authority into the newly created Environment Agency.
This series contains files related to Food Law Policy matters covering the United Kingdom, including the implementation of regulations and harmonisation with European Union directives. The lists of subjects covers: Implementation of the Natural Mineral Water, Spring Water and Bottled Drinking Water Regulations 2003; Implementation of the Infant Feeding Claims and EC Directive 2003/40.
This series contains files of the Ministry of National Insurance and it's successors relating to the policy and procedure of the payment of maternity benefits under the National Insurance Act 1946. The files deal also with some of the Regulations made under the Act between 1948 and 1953, including the National Insurance (Maternity Benefit) Amendment Regulations 1949, the National Insurance (Maternity Benefit) (Transitional) Regulations 1953 and the National Insurance (Maternity Benefit and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 1953, and contain proposals for amendments to the Act. The series also contains papers relating to the home confinement grant, information on the times for claiming maternity benefits, revision of medical certificate regulations, the definition of a confinement and treatment of polygamous marriages for maternity benefit purposes. Also included are submissions to the National Insurance Advisory Committee (NIAC) and recommendations from local advisory committees.
Files of the Meat and Livestock Division of the Ministry of Food, and the Food Standards, Hygiene and Slaughterhouse Policy and Animal Health Divisions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Subjects covered by the series include meat hygiene, imported food regulations, export of meat and meat products, slaughterhouse and knackers yard bye-laws and regulations, slaughterhouse hygiene regulations, bye-laws relating to meat for feeding animals, meat marketing schemes and the treatment of condemned meat.
Selected files illustrating the procedure and regulations adopted in the issue of licences to individual aircrafts pilots, engineers, navigators, and wireless operators, by the Air Ministry and Ministry of Civil Aviation under the Air Navigation Acts.
Annual reports on the performance of the regulated water and sewerage companies in England and Wales, including international comparisons and prices set for the coming year. Arrangement: Broadly chronological.
Ministry of Education, Special Services Branch files relating to institutions providing facilities for the further training of handicapped persons in continuation of instruction received at special schools. The files contain applications for recognition under the regulations; HM Inspectors reports; details of organisation and curricula; and the assessment of fees chargeable to local education authorities and approved by the Board of Education. Administrative history: Schools certified under the Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf Children) Act 1893 and the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899 provided for such children up to the age of 16. Continuance of instruction and training were met to some extent by provision made under the Regulations for Evening Schools and courses aided by the Board of Education under Regulations for Technical Schools, etc. Special grants to encourage the development of courses for former scholars of special schools were introduced in 1917 under regulations known as 'Regulations for Institutions providing instruction in preparation for a Trade for students formerly in attendance at Special Schools'. They formed no part of the special school regulations at that time although general regulations concerning recognition and the conduct of Institutions were common to both, subject to minor modifications. The training institution was further recognised in 1920 as an essential link between the special school and the workshop and Regulations for the Training of Blind, etc. Students for Higher Education were introduced to secure better and more extended facilities for students. Grant aid was modified and substantially increased. These regulations were repealed in 1925 when special conditions applicable to full-time courses of higher education for blind, deaf, defective and epileptic Students were incorporated in the Board of Education (Special Services) Regulations, 1925. The introduction of the Disabled Persons (Employment) Act, 1944, under which the Minister of Labour and National Service was made generally responsible for the training and employment of disabled persons, including the blind, resulted in the withdrawal of recognition from a number of training establishments. The principles governing the continued recognition of other institutions under the Handicapped Pupils and School Health Service Regulation, 1945 and the division of responsibility between the Minister of Labour and National Service and the Minister of Education for the training of disabled persons was set out in the Ministry of Education Circular 68 (1945). Arrangement: Alphabetical order of counties up to piece 164 and subsequently in file number order of counties followed by county boroughs.
This series consists of various documents, many of them of a legal nature, relating to the administration of Chelsea Hospital, including abstracts of property, inventory books, legal opinions, and office regulations.
This series contains records of the Chairman's Office, including records regarding the Flight Data Processing System (FDPS), and the Committee on the Regulation of Air Traffic Controller Hours (CRATCOH).
This series contains confidential books and instructions comprising general orders and regulations, instruction books issued for the government and guidance of the Metropolitan Police Force, refused charge books, etc.
This series contains policy files relating to all aspects of vehicle safety, including motor vehicle construction and use regulations (dealing with, for example, tyres, brakes, headlights and seat belts); vehicle testing and inspections; the approval of motor vehicles, equipment and parts; speed limits; and standards for the construction and use of goods vehicles, public service vehicles and hovercraft. Some files were re-registered from the VR and VRT series. The series also contains papers concerning a 1954 regulation requiring all pedal cyclists to maintain their brakes. The VS files commenced in 1968, replacing the VR (Vehicle Regulation) series (otherwise in MT 165) which had been created in 1962 and which, in turn, replaced the construction and use of vehicles files in the VRT (Vehicle Regulations and Taxation) series (otherwise in MT 99).
Minutes etc., of the regular series of Conferences established by the London and North Western, Caledonian and certain other railway companies for the regulation and development of West Coast traffic.
This series contains records on the administration of the Agricultural Chemicals Approval Scheme, 1968-1986. The scheme was replaced by the Control of Pesticides Regulations 1986.
These commissions, certificates and responses relate to the enclosure of land under the Dean and New Forests Act 1808 and the setting out of various ports under the General Regulation of the Customs Act 1833.
This series contains registered files relating to the operation of the Pesticides Safety Precaution Scheme, the voluntary scheme for the regulation of pesticides in the UK run by the pesticides industry from 1975-1984.
National Savings Committee files in this series cover such matters as office administration and practice and include general papers on policy, regulations etc, in respect of various forms of savings.
This series consists of copies of reports of the Inspecting Officers of Railways, appointed under the Regulation of Railways Act of 1840. Original documents can be found in MT 6.
This series consists of journals of Surgeon Superintendents in charge of convicts, containing rules and regulations, lists of names, details of diet and medical reports. Arrangement: By ships' names
Files relating to the general responsibilities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries for farm safety issues, in particular the drafting and enforcement of regulations under the Agriculture (Safety, Health and Welfare Provisions) Act 1956. The series includes regulations on the design of tractors and other machinery, and the employment of children; annual reports to Parliament; consultations with other interested organisations; and instructions to the regional safety inspectorate, etc.
Miscellaneous unregistered files relating to the workings of the Ministry of Food in the period 1939-1950. These papers include original signed and sealed authorities to act under Defence (General) Regulations 1939 and original signed authorisations eg to delegate powers to area meat agents. Also included are signed instruments appointing members to Food Control Committees and terms of reference given to appointees under those defence regulations.
The records concern the Directorate's responsibilities for management problems and techniques in the construction industry, including training and education; formulation and amendment of building regulations, including liaison with local authorities and the construction industry. The series also contains minutes and papers of the Building Regulations Advisory Committee and those of the Banwell Committee on the Placing and Management of Contracts for Building and Civil Engineering Work.
Files of the Board of Education and successors Technical Branch and Further Education Branch relating to residential colleges providing facilities for higher adult education and recognized for grant aid under the Regulations for certain Residential Colleges 1914 and later regulations. The records are files relating to individual colleges and include reports by H.M. Inspectors, curricula, grant assessments, prospectuses and annual reports issued by the colleges. The series also includes the application by Ruskin College (Oxford) for recognition. Administrative history: The earliest residential colleges were established by voluntary bodies to provide a one year course of liberal adult education and were maintained by funds derived from private sources. The first such college was Ruskin College (Oxford), founded in 1899 to promote higher education among working men and women. Following representations by Ruskin College, the Regulations for Certain Residential Colleges drafted in 1914, provided for direct grants to the colleges by the Board of Education. The outbreak of the First World War brought the activities of the colleges to a halt and it was not until 1920 that the regulations came into active use; they continued in force until superseded by the Board of Education (Adult Education) Regulations of 1924. Provision for adult education was subsequently embodied in the Further Education Grant Regulations, 1946. Following the 1946 regulations, several Local Education Authorities opened residential colleges for adult education for which they provided grant-aid. These colleges provided short courses of a few days to a few weeks duration in a wide range of subjects, liberal studies for the general public and specialised courses for industry and some professions. The students were usually from the area covered by the Local Education Authority.
Medical Branch of the Board of Education files relating to the grant-aided provision by local education authorities and voluntary bodies under the Regulations for Evening Play Centres 1917, and subsequent regulations, of facilities for recreation after school hours. The papers comprise minutes and correspondence relating to applications for recognition for the purpose of grant; reports by HM Inspectors; copies of annual reports issued by the voluntary bodies concerned; and the drafting and implementation of the Regulations for Evening Play Centres (1917). The files include material relating to the drafting and implementation of the regulations, minutes and correspondence relating to applications for recognition, reports by HM Inspectors and copies of annual reports issued by the voluntary bodies concerned. Administrative history: As early as 1902 Mrs. Humphrey Ward had organised an annual Holiday Play Centre during August in the garden of the Passmore Edwards Institute, London, for the benefit of children unable to have a country holiday. In subsequent years various voluntary organisations supplemented this provision with evening play centres, but owing to the falling off in voluntary subscriptions a serious danger arose of some of the existing centres being discontinued. Although Section 13(1)(a) of the Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907 gave local education authorities the power to provide play centres and also to assist work of this nature carried on by voluntary agencies, the granting of free use of school buildings was almost without exception the limit to which this power was exercised. Prompted by an approach from the Home Office, who were concerned at the increase in crime among young persons and children still at school in the larger towns, and with the object of according to children in attendance at public elementary schools facilities for play after school hours, the Board of Education issued in 1917 the Regulations for Evening Play Centres. Under these regulations, grants amounting in some cases to fifty per cent of the cost of maintenance, were paid both to local education authorities and to voluntary bodies in aid of evening play centres recognised under the regulations. Section 17 of the Education Act, 1918, and Section 22 of the Education Act, 1921, extended the responsibilities of local education authorities for promoting the social and physical welfare of the children and young persons in their charge. Statutory authority for the payment of grant in respect of evening play centres is found in Grant Regulations No. 7 (1919), the Board of Education (Healthy Physical and Mental Development of Children, Elementary Education) Regulations, 1920, the Consolidated Regulations relating to Special Services (Grant Regulations No. 19) and the Special Services Regulations, 1925 (Grant Regulations No. 19). Direct grant to managers of voluntary play centres ceased on 31st March, 1945 and provision for the leisure time of school children became the duty of local education authorities under section 53 of the Education Act, 1944. The outbreak of the Second World War brought these activities to a stop, and direct grants to voluntary play centres formally ceased on 31 March 1945. Under s.53 of the Education Act 1944, provision for the leisure time of school children became the duty of local education authorities. Arrangement: The files of individual centres are arranged under counties for England and Wales, followed by policy papers grouped under the heading of 'General'.
Board of Education precedent files containing H.M. Inspectors' reports, interview memoranda and correspondence, reports made by the Board of Education to Parliament, and correspondence and papers relating to the scrutiny of Local Education Authorities' claims for annual substantive grant (made in accordance with regulations introduced under Section 44 of the Education Act 1918, re-enacted as Section 118 of the Education Act 1921). Few'general' or policy papers concerning the payment of grant are extant. The grant scrutiny files, however, provide examples of alleged parsimony of some authorities in whose areas the staffing was said to be so low as to bring schools to the verge of inefficiency. Some instances occurred of the deduction of grant and where the amount exceeded £500 or the product of a halfpenny rate, the Board of Education, under Section 44(5) of the Education Act 1918, re-enacted as Section 118(4) of the Education Act, 1921, were caused to lay before Parliament'a report stating the amount of and the reasons for the reduction or deduction'. The series was terminated by the introduction of revised financial provisions under the Education Act 1944. Administrative history: Section 44 of the Education Act, 1918 (re-enacted as s 118 of the Education Act 1921) provided for the payment to Local Education Authorities, out of monies provided by parliament, of annual substantive grant in aid of education subject to the conditions and limitations prescribed by regulations. Regulations for Substantive Grant (No. 1) and the Provisional Code of Regulations for Public Elementary Schools in England; Grant Regulations No. 8 [Grant Regulations No. 9 for Wales and Monmouthshire] were introduced in 1919 to deal with grants in agreement with the financial clauses of the Education Act, 1918 and the discontinuance of separate grants under previous Education Acts. Regulations for both England and Wales were incorporated in the Revised Code of Regulations for Public Elementary Schools for England and Wales (1926). An amendment to the grant regulations was made in 1940, under s 118 of the Education Act 1921 to stabilise, in war conditions, the grant payable to each authority at a 'standard percentage' - that is the proportion which the grant for the year 1937-1938 bore to the net expenditure as ascertained for that year. Arrangement: By counties (including Part III Authorities) and county borough order for England and Wales followed by the Isle of Man.
Files of the Board of Education, Technical Branch, and Ministry of Education, Schools Branch concerning junior technical schools. The files include applications for recognition, H.M. Inspectors' comments, and various correspondence relating to local and general aspects of technical education for young people. The impact of the Second World War is reflected in the diminution of material on the files during the period 1939-1944, as restrictions on educational building and inspection visits were imposed. New material appeared on the files during the war relating to special problems arising from evacuation of the pupils away from the danger areas and the use of premises for other than educational purposes. Papers preserved show the efforts of junior technical schools to provide courses to meet the need identified in Circular 1582 (5th February 1942) which drew attention to the urgent national need for more skilled workers in the building industry. Files on schools of nautical training, are also included in this series. Administrative history: By the end of the nineteenth century the need to provide preliminary technical education for young persons had been recognised by the establishment of trade schools which prepared school leavers for employment in particular local trades. The steady growth of these schools led to the introduction in 1913 of the Regulations for Junior Technical Schools, that is day schools which provided courses for boys and girls for two or three years after leaving public elementary schools and which continued the general education of their pupils but at the same time prepared them for industrial employment. These regulations recognised trade schools as providing a distinct type of technical education and removed them from the miscellaneous body of work known as technical day classes which received parliamentary grant under Article 42 of the Regulations for Technical Schools. The Regulations for Junior Technical Schools were subsequently incorporated in the Regulations for Technical Schools, Schools of Art and Other Forms of Provision of Further Education, 1914, and succeeding Regulations, until the Education Act, 1944, established the Schools as an integral part of secondary education under the Primary and Secondary Schools (Grant Conditions) Regulations, 1945. Schools of nautical training received grant aid under the Regulations for Schools of Nautical Training which were introduced in 1913 and were incorporated in the revised Regulations for Further Education, 1934. Arrangement: Alphabetically in county order for England and Wales; papers relating to the acquisition of sites and buildings are given separate piece numbers.
Files of the Accidents Investigation Branch relating to accidents to service aircraft. Administrative history: The Ministry of Civil Aviation Act 1945, transferred to the Minister of Civil Aviation responsibility first established by the Air Navigation Act 1920, S.12 for making regulations providing for the investigation of any accident to civil aircraft arising out of or in the course of air navigation and occurring in or over the UK or the territorial waters adjacent thereto, or elsewhere to British aircraft registered in the UK. In accordance with regulation 4(1) of the Air Navigation (Investigation of Accidents) Regulations 1922, an Accidents Investigation Branch under a Chief Inspector of Accidents was established in the Air Ministry. Upon request the Branch gave assistance to the appropriate authorities in the investigation of accidents to service aircraft.
The records relate to the Revision of the Animal Waste Directive 90/667; Implementation of EU Animal By Products Regulations; minutes and papers of the Fallen Stock Working Group. Administrative history: This series was the responsibility of Animal Health (Disease Control) Division Branch C which was formed in 1992 to deal with all notifiable diseases except salmonella and BSE. The other Animal Health Sections were as follows at the time Meat Hygiene Division, which was created in 1982 Animal Health (International) Division dealing with import/export matters Animal Health and Welfare; Veterinary Sectiion dealing with BSE; TB and Brucellosis Animal Welfare Division dealing with animal welfare on farms, markets, transit; Animal Health (Zoonoses) Division dealing with salmonella in poultry. The function is currently with the Animal By Products Team, who deal with the EU review on animal by products controls, revising domestic animal by products regulations and implementing EU regulation.
Files of the Board of Education University Branch concerning applications by Local Education Authorities, universities and university colleges for grants in aid to meet capital expenditure on the acquisition, erection, improvement, of premises for teachers' training colleges and hostels. The records include ancillary documents in support of the applications and, where applicable, details of final cost. Administrative history: To meet an insufficiency of accommodation for the training of teachers the Board of Education made provision in the Regulations for the Training of Teachers and for the Examination of Students in Training Colleges, 1905 [Cd. 2568] for grants in aid of the establishment of training colleges. No award was made under these regulations which provided for a grant of 25 per cent of capital expenditure of the cost of site and buildings or the amount of £25 per place provided, which ever was the less. Grant aid was proposed for the enlargement of existing colleges as well as the establishment of new colleges. The Regulations of 1906 (Cd. 3049) provided for grant of 75 per cent of capital expenditure for the acquisition, erection, enlargement, or improvement of college buildings, and grant for the renting of temporary premises, but restricted the offer of aid to local education authorities. Subsequent regulations included grant for hostels and in 1909 the Regulations (Cd. 4783), which re-introduced a limitation of cost per place, extended the offer of grant to universities and university colleges. Building projects which ceased during the war were resumed in 1919 subject to limitations imposed by the Treasury. Grants in aid of Teachers Training Colleges, as previously described, were 'suspended' by the Regulations for the Training of Teachers, 1922, and payment ceased with the exception of projects already approved by the Board of Education. Arrangement: Alphabetical
The LEI series cover a wide range of topics relating to the import and export of breeding livestock and semen, particularly controls to ensure the health of livestock and livestock strains in the UK, and to comply with other states' regulations concerning veterinary control of imported livestock. Some of the more important subjects covered are the importation of animals in exceptional circumstances; applications for licensing; the prohibition of certain unacceptable imports; the examination of other countries' animal health regulations and liaison with cattle societies. The series includes some early files re-registered from the TLY file series: MAF 121.
This series contains miscellaneous correspondence and papers relating to the building, maintenance, staffing and regulation of the Public Record Office and the Rolls Chapel repository, including plans and drawings of the office and a register of correspondence of James (later Sir James) Pennethorne relating to the construction of the Office and the Museum of Practical Geology. The series also includes departmental rules and regulations, parliamentary papers, press cuttings, articles, photographs and prints relating to the office. A few papers relate to Scottish and Irish repositories.
This series contains a selection of Civil Service Approved Association files, concerning the registration of Civil Service Approved Societies under the Trade Disputes and Trade Unions Act 1927. The files selected give an indication of the customary procedures followed by Civil Service Approved Societies when applying for approval and certification. Administrative history: The Civil Service (Approved Associations) Regulations (CS(AA)) 1927 were introduced following the Trade Disputes and Trade Unions Act 1927. These regulations were revoked by the Trade Disputes and Trade Unions Act 1946, and the powers of the Chief Registrar of Friendly Societies lapsed with regard to CSAAs.
Files from the AM registered file series used by the Machinery Operations and Supply and Land Drainage and Water Supply Divisions, dealing with a wide range of topics related to agricultural machinery, development of new machinery, fuel policy and regulations concerning agricultural transport.
This series contains records of the Plant Variety Rights Office and Seeds Division relating to the control of registered plant names and the conduct of statutory performance trials on plants under the Plant Varieties and Seeds Act 1964 and the Plant Varieties (Index) Regulations 1965. Arrangement: Former file reference
Records produced by the Plant Variety Rights Office in Cambridge dealing with the regulation of plant varieties following the 1964 Plant Varieties and Seeds Act. The initial deposit covers procedures and notes on meetings and papers from the Variety Classification Unit.
Files of the Establishment Divisions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its predecessors dealing with the codification of instructions to regional and divisional offices; office procedure and staff regulations; editing of regional and divisional officer and regional executive officer memos; notes to heads of branches and offices notices etc.
Records of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food relating to provisions for emergency feeding outside London. Most selected files relate to the direction and financing of emergency feeding organisation under the Civil Defence (Emergency Feeding) Regulations 1951 and Civil Defence (Grant) Regulations 1953, but the series includes one file on emergency feeding during the Aberfan disaster. Some files relate to civic restaurants. Administrative history: The Civil Defence (Emergency Feeding) Regulations 1951, made under the Civil Defence Act 1948, placed on the councils of counties and county boroughs of England and Wales responsibility for making plans to feed members of the civil population who, as a result of hostile action, are unable to feed themselves. The Civil Defence (Grant) Regulations 1953 provided that approved expenditure by these authorities should be repaid in full. The Civic Restaurants Act 1947 enabled local authorities to operate restaurants, under the financial supervision of the Minister of Food. Responsibility for civic restaurant work was moved in 1970 to General Food Policy Division II (EB series).
This series contains registration officers' handbooks of instructions issued for their guidance. The Handbook is divided into several sections: 1) preliminary, containing regulations, amendments and interpretation of the regulations 2) the Registration Service, relating to duties, districts, conditions of service, offices, stores 3) registers and indexes: instructions 4) registration of births 5) re-registration of births of legitimated persons 6) adoption of children 7) registration of still-births 8) disposal of bodies of still-born children 9) registration of deaths 10) disposal of bodies of deceased persons 11) marriages 12) correction of errors 13) information and returns for statistical purposes 14) quarterly copies 15) searches and certificates 16) miscellaneous returns 17) accounting 18) offences and appendices containing copies of the prescribed forms and specimen entries in the registers. The handbook was first issued in 1927 but a copy has not survived. The first handbook in this series is dated 1954 and thereafter there appears to be a copy of each revision, which was usually brought about by the introduction of new and revised regulations. Administrative history: The Registrar and his staff are appointed by the local registration authority and are deemed to be employees of that authority. The registrar's functions however are laid down in Acts of Parliament and regulations made under these acts. In exercising these functions he is subject to such instructions and directions as the registrar general may give and the registration officers' handbook contains a series of instructions issued for the guidance of registration officers.
This series contains records relating Public Expenditure Surveys, European Community market issues, and the European Community Directive. Administrative history: The records were created by the Employment and Training Division within the Finance Regulation and Industry Directorate in the Treasury's Spending Group Arrangement: The records are listed chronologically in file prefix order
Registers containing summary details of cases referred by the Home Office to the Treasury Solicitor for action and advice, and a note of their disposal. The entries concern legal business arising from the Home Office's responsibilities for such matters as criminal prosecutions, explosions, extradition, liquor licensing, mine regulations, prisons, transportation of convicts, workmen's compensation, etc.
This series contains consultation papers from the Office of Water Services, concerning the regulation and monitoring of water supplies and the provision of water services. It also contains papers on economic issues relating to water supplies and services. Arrangement: Files are arranged chronologically.
Correspondence and papers concerning the regulations on the acceptance and wearing of foreign decorations by British military personnel, and also contains material relating to the temporary changes made to procedures during the Second World War. Arrangement: Ceremonial Branch papers were originally stored in racks and when placed in file covers were not numbered in date order.
This series contains annual reports (including published accounts) of the Meat Hygiene Service. A full list of the various pieces of food safety, meat hygiene, animal welfare and BSE related laws and regulations which are enforced by MHS is in the first annual report: KM 1/1.
This series consists of a series of office minutes, 1836 to 1929; a set of Colonial Office bulletins, 1920 to 1932; and a series of establishment notices, 1935 to 1965; together with a few miscellaneous items. The volumes contain details of instructions to staff, regulations, appointments and other allied matters affecting the internal administration of the Office.
Reports on agricultural wages, 1900 to 1907; and files (mainly post-1924) dealing with labour recruitment and manpower policy, unemployment insurance, the Agricultural Wages (Regulation) Acts 1924 to 1940. Contains a few files re-registered from the MPB series ( MAF 186 ) and the AHB file series: MAF 234 Some later files in the SLY series are in MAF 228.
This series contains files related to the development and implementation of Food Law Policy, including ensuring that relevant policies and directives meet the requirmeents of relevant European Union directives. The lists of subjects covers: Minutes and papers of the Expert Panel on Choking; Implementation of Condensed and Dried Milk Regulations in the UK.
This series contains representative files of complaints against doctors made to the Medical Service Committees of Local National Health Service executive councils, and appeals to the Minister of Health against their decisions heard before the Medical Advisory Committees appointed by the minister under the National Health Service (Service Committee Tribunal) Regulations of 1948.
This series consists of reports of court hearings in which the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its predecessors had an interest, and constitutes a detailed summary of enforcement work carried out under defence regulations during the Second World War, and other legislation since. Arrangement: Arranged in annual folders; the list does not specify the hearings each contains.
The records relate to the development of a fiscal regime for controlling North Sea Gas, the development of regulations concerning oil, gas and energy supply and the relationship between the British Government and energy suppliers. Administrative history: The Energy Division had responsibility for developing a fiscal regime towards nationalised energy industries, North Sea oil and energy policy.
These British Railways rule books cover the whole range of railway control and operating regulations issued for the information of the staff. The series also includes two booklets supplementing working timetables issued by the London Midland and Scottish Railway Company in March 1937. Material of date later than 1947 was transferred from RAIL1135 and RAIL 1136.
This series consists of selected files illustrating the procedure and regulations governing the issue of certificates of airworthiness and aircraft registration by the Air Ministry and the Ministries of Civil Aviation and Transport.
Specimens of series of documents destroyed which have been drawn from the following series of case files: University state scholarship, hall and hostel regulations and various local authorities series. The latter relate to audit, code, applications for grants, staffing and children in institutions. Also included in this series are records of general interest which have survived by accident.
These files of the Irish Revenue Board and Irish Board of Customs relate mainly to orders and regulations concerning customs and excise duties. The series also includes solicitor's reports, 1744 to 1747, excise statistics, including some of the Irish Board of Excise down to 1822, and a register of bonded warehouses, 1827.
This series contains confidential print relating to miscellaneous matters. It comprises selected correspondence and papers relating to quarantine regulations, foreign refugees, international maritime law, limitation of armaments and other matters not related to any specific country or area.
This series contains circulars issued by the English National Board to academic and training institutions regarding the provision of training courses, registration, and administration and application of English National Board and United Kingdom Central Council for Nursing, Midwifery and Health Visiting regulations. It also contains indexes to circulars for the years 1983-2001.
Minutes and papers of the central board of the Office of Water Services. Administrative history: From 1989 to 1991 there were two governance bodies [the Policy Board and the Management Board] which, while they operated separately, were still considered as the main Board. From 1991, the Board operated as the OfWat Board.
A collection of ministerial and official papers concerning Treasury regulation of Bank of England affairs, culminating in the Bank of England Act 1946, including correspondence concerning the making of advances by the bank for the public service on the security of Treasury bills or credit of ways and means.
These continue the entries of criminal warrants made before 1850 in HO 13 , but after 1871 also include other warrants relating to domestic matters, including fishery regulations, public service pensions and gratuities, burial grounds, exhumation and removal of bodies, and transport of explosives. After 1887 warrants relating to individual prisoners were entered in HO 147.
Correspondence and papers recording general policy and precedents arising from the Bankruptcy Department's responsibility for the investigation, regulation and administration of insolvencies. The series includes re-registered files which would otherwise be found amongst the records of the Department of Trade and Industry (FV) division: Records of the Industrial and the Industrial and Commercial Policy Divisions and Groups.
This series contains registered files of the Pensions Commutation Board covering such topics as statutory regulations, revision of procedures and some medical investigations into subjects such as life expectancy of commuters. Some files deal with arrangements for the commutation of pensions following the disbandment of the Royal Irish Constabulary in 1922.
This series contains records relate to Data Protection (Subject Access Modification) (Social Work) Amendment Order 1994: draft Statutory Instruments. Administrative history: The DA series was the Data Protection Unit’s policy series concerning the administration of Data Protection regulations and legislation
This series contains files regarding the introduction of regulations for charges for NHS Dental and Optical services, including efficiency scrutiny on agency benefit arrangements for low income families and remission of NHS charges and travelling expenses to hospitals. Arrangement: The series is arranged in file reference order (within each transfer)
This series contains records relating to Public Service pensions policy, regulation and the local government pensions scheme. Administrative history: The records were created by the Superannuation and Civil Service Pensions Division in the Treasury's Public Service Group Arrangement: The records are listed chronologically in file prefix order
This series contains publications on various aspects of the work of the Office of Water Services which relate to its key functions to monitor and regulate water supplies and services and related economic issues. The publications are ad hoc and do not belong to an identifiable series. Arrangement: Mainly arranged chronologically.
This series contains registered files of the Telecommunications Directorate of the Ministry of Aviation and its successors relating to the regulation and licensing of private aeronautical (ground) radio stations and facilities. It also contains files re-registered from the CN file series: AVIA 109. Arrangement: Arranged in previous reference order by transfer
Submissions to the Sovereign for royal approval of appointments, promotions, awards and regulations, and petitions in court martial cases. They include King's and Queen's Orders, signed documents submitted to the sovereign and then signed by him or her to signify approval.
Unregistered papers concerning all aspects of dock labour, including material from inquiries into the regulation of employment of dock workers, and manpower aspects of the operation of ports. Arrangement: Generally chronological
This series contains records concerning the policy and regulations regarding protection granted to plant breeders, in the Plant Varieties and Seeds Act 1964, under which a system of Plant Breeders' Rights Schemes were introduced. Administrative history: The Plant Breeder's Rights Schemes granted breeders of new varieties exclusive rights to propogate them, or to authorise others to do so.
The preserved records in this series chart the implementation of the provisions of the EEC Co-Responsibility Regulations which came into force in the United Kingdom on 1 July 1988. This was a policy response designed to control the cost of cereal surpluses. The levy sought to regain from farmers some of the price they received for their cereals. Principal United Kingdom legislation is The Cereals Co-Responsibility Regulations 1988 which superseded the Cereals Co-Responsibility Regulations 1986. They provide for the administration, collection and enforcement of co-responsibility levy imposed in respect of specified cereals by Article 4 of Council Regulation(EEC) 2727/75. In the United Kingdom co-responsibility levy was collected by the Home-Grown Cereals Authority on behalf of the Intervention Board of Agricultural Produce. The Levy ran until 1995. Administrative history: The creators of the records were the Co-Responsibility Levy team. This team was created to decided the Policy issues surrounding the practical implementation of the Levy. The Team was wound up in 1995
The series deals with many aspects of foreign travel including arrangments for visits, conditions of services, pay and conditions, allocation of allowances, travel arrangements and applications for ministerial support. Subjects include staff regulations, general arrangements and proposals for economies in expenditure.
Registered files of the Animal Health Division, dealing with topics relating to livestock, and to animal foodstuffs and products. They include subjects such as Commonwealth and foreign import regulations; the inspection of factories in connection with the export of fertilisers and quarantine stations used for the export of pedigree animals.
This series consists of registered files concerning the regulation of road traffic outside the London area, and which deal with such matters as speed limits, pedestrian crossings, traffic signs, and parking. Administrative history: The General Traffic Division, set up in 1962 with responsibility for the regulation of road traffic and the implementation of road safety measures, was concerned with the regulation of road traffic outside the London Traffic Area, including speed limits, pedestrian crossings, traffic signs and signals. It also exercised general oversight over the use of the powers of local authorities to provide parking places and to impose waiting restrictions, one-way traffic systems, weight restrictions and other forms of traffic regulation within their areas. The Division dealt directly with these matters on trunk roads. In 1966 the General Traffic Division was re-organised, retaining responsibility for road safety matters while traffic subjects were taken over by the Urban Traffic Division. Urban Traffic Division itself was amalgamated shortly afterwards with planning and highways divisions to become Transport Planning Methods Division - TTP.
Minutes, etc, of the committee established by the Birmingham and Shrewsbury, Shrewsbury and Chester, and Oxford, Worcester and Wolverhampton railway companies to regulate Wolverhampton through traffic; and of the joint station committee set up by the Great Western and other railway companies in 1853.
This series includes a variety of material, including some early correspondence; rules and regulations; progress reports; scientific and technical papers; monographs about the history of the Directorate; catalogues; maps and plans; and published booklets, information leaflets and gazetteers.
The series covers all aspects of the work of the Legal Department, Parliamentary Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, including acts and bills both public and private, orders and statutory instruments, model clauses, reports and discussion papers, ministerial policy and departmental regulations and procedures. Previous files in the PPB series are in MAF 53.
This series contains files from the Law Society on legal aid administration relating to transitional arrangements for the Poor Persons Procedure; the Legal Aid and Advice Bill 1948 and Act 1949; Regulations and their consolidation Schemes and implementation; and Areas and boundaries.
Registered files of the Board of Education and successors University Branch and Teachers Branch concerning the drafting and revision of the training of teachers regulations, the supply of trained teachers and the provision of training colleges, the formation of the Joint Examination Boards to administer the final examination of training college students and the introduction of building grant in aid of the establishment of training colleges. The papers show the response to the Emergency Training Scheme launched in 1943 to meet the immediate post-war needs. Recorded are evacuation arrangements for training colleges and the effect of the second world war admissions. They illustrate measures taken regarding air raid precautions; other wartime grants; the provision of teacher training correspondence courses for members of the forces and prisoners of war; and the employment of ex-servicemen as physical training instructor. There are also papers concerning the implementation of the recommendations of the McNair Report published in 1944. The series contains information on the various training college expansion programmes which took place between the years 1955-1967; the changes which occurred in the field of grants for both student and teacher training and the expansion of educational research. Also included are records of various advisory bodies such as the National Advisory Council for the Training and Supply of Teachers, an additional standing committee (Standing Committee C) formed in 1957 which deals with teachers in further education establishments, as well as various sub-committees which were active in the later years. Administrative history: Prior to 1904, regulations for the training of teachers appeared, with the exception of the regulations for the Instruction and Training of Pupil Teachers and Students in Training Colleges 1903, as articles of the Code of Regulations for Day Schools 1899-1902, the Code of Regulations for Public Elementary Schools and Training Colleges 1903 or earlier codes of regulations. In 1904 Regulations for the Training of Teachers for Elementary Schools were introduced and were followed by regulations for other categories of intending teachers, and a statement of grant available for technological and professional work in universities (1911). These separate series of regulations were drawn together as the Regulations of the Training of Teachers in 1918, and have been subject to periodic revisions and amendments. In 1942 a committee under the chairmanship of Sir Arnold McNair reviewed the whole field of the sources of supply, recruitment and training of teachers. Further changes in the training and supply of teachers followed the Education Act 1944 (commonly called the 'Butler' Act) subsequently amended by the Education Act 1946 and the Education (Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts of 1948 and 1953. One of McNair's recommendations was the setting up of Area Training Organisations which commenced in 1947. The National Advisory Council on the Training and Supply of Teachers was formed in 1949. Its two standing committees dealt on the one hand with the training and conditions of qualification of teachers; and on the other with their recruitment and distribution.
This series contains files of the Ministry of Health and successor (mainly from the SD series, but including earlier files from the 94,000 series) dealing with the planning, implementation, and development of the National Health Service Superannuation Scheme, and the winding up of earlier pension schemes. Includes files on the drafting of the regulations and correspondence with various bodies operating existing schemes on the terms available to their members, codes of procedure and a set of NHS superannuation leaflets. Administrative history: The National Health Service Superannuation Scheme is contributory, and was established by statutory regulations under section 67 of the National Health Service Act 1946, for the benefit of employees of the authorities instituted under the act. The National Health Service came into being on 5 July 1948. Employees who were transferred to the Service on that date could opt to join the new superannuation scheme or to retain the rights and conditions of their existing schemes. These schemes ranged from statutory schemes (such as the Local Government Superannuation Scheme), to schemes based on insurance policies, (such as the Federated Superannuation Scheme for Nurses and Hospital Officers), and, in the case of general medical and dental practitioners extended to privately arranged insurance policies. The Superannuation Division of the Ministry of Health was responsible for drafting the original regulations, studying the existing schemes then in operation and advising employees of their options. The regulations governing both the main and the transitional provisions of the new scheme were amended from time to time, notably by the National Health Service (Supernannuation) (Amendment) Regulations 1960.
Minutes and papers of meetings of District Agricultural Wages Committees and Permit Sub-Committees in England and Wales; and proposals for new wage rates under the Agricultural Wages (Regulation) Act, 1924. Administrative history: Under the Agricultural Wages (Regulation) Act 1924 and successive Agricultural Wages Acts, minimum rates wages for agricultural workers in England and Wales were established by bodies working independently of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, but given secretarial and administrative support by the ministries. Following the Agricultural Wages Act 1948 where national minimum rates were set by the central board, the district committees, though they continued to function, exercised only relatively limited local functions, including consideration of applications for permits of exemption to enable lower rates than the national minimum to be paid to individual workers on the grounds of age or disability.
The two volumes forming this series contain notes and minutes of meetings of the Coal Controller's Advisory Board. Subjects discussed cover a wide range and include the scope of control, daylight saving, horse feed, recruiting for the Army, release from the Forces, absenteeism, hours of work, holidays, bonuses and wages, Workmen's Compensation Insurance, employment of boys on the surface, suspension of the Eight Hours Act, probable effects of Education Bills, and the Whitley Report. Administrative history: The Controller of Coal Mines was appointed by the Board of Trade, which was responsible for Coal Mines before the creation of the Ministry of Fuel and Power, to control mines of which possession had been taken under Regulation 9G of the Defence of the Realm Regulations. The first Controller was Sir Guy Calthrop, General Manager of the London and North Western Railway.
Policy files of the Housing Division of the Ministry of Housing and Local Government re-registered from the 92000 and 99000 series, relating to housing finance, management and production; local authority housing programmes and slum clearance; improvement grants; research and development into housing design; building regulations and rent control. The series also contains minutes and papers of the Central Housing Advisory Committee and its subcommittees, from 1959 until its final meeting in 1973. Administrative history: Division B had responsibilities for housing matters in Greater London, the South East and East Anglia, improvement grants, research and development into house design, building regulations and rent control, and consisted of branches H1, H5, H6, H8 and H10. Arrangement: The series is arranged by subject which is defined by the numerical arrangement of the second and third elements of the former reference.
Selected registered files of the Treasury Solicitor relating to work on behalf of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and its successors. The files illustrate the legal aspects of work undertaken, including the revision of air navigation regulations and orders, determination of powers of the Civil Aviation Constabulary and Customs and Excise officers, compulsory purchase orders, public inquiries and investigations into aircraft and shipping accidents, questions on aircraft accidents, questions on the interpretation and implementation of various transport regulations and orders, contracts, claims for damages, interpretation of legislation, transfers of functions between departments, and the public inquiry into the extension of Gatwick Airport in 1954. Arrangement: The files are arranged in order of their original file references, which is based on a consecutive numbering system.
This series contains minutes and papers of the Civil Aviation Authority's Airworthiness Requirements Board concerning the regulation and general oversight of air safety. Administrative history: The Airworthiness Requirements Board (ARB) is responsible for giving advice to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) on matters relating to the regulation and general oversight of air safety, including operational safety and airworthiness matters; civil aviation medical standards; associated legislative requirements; certification of aircraft and aircraft operations; approval of organisations; the licensing of aerodromes, flight crew personnel and aircraft maintenance engineers; activities relating to mandatory and voluntary occurence reporting and any other matters which appear to the board to relate to the standards mentioned above and on which the board considers it appropriate to give advice to the authority. The ARB continues to meet approximately 11 times a year. Arrangement: Chronological order within each accesssion.
Files of correspondence and papers of the Board of Education, Technical Branch, and Ministry of Education, Further Education Branch concerning the provision in England, Wales and the Isle of Man, under the 1904 Regulations for Technical Schools and subsequent regulations, of technical instruction. The residue of technical school files comprises interview memoranda; minutes and correspondence establishing the need and subsequent provision of technical classes; and approval of proposed National Certificate courses. Material appearing during the second world war included applications to the General Nursing Council for approval of pre-nursing courses, the building of new or extended canteens to cater for war time emergency feeding demands and records relating to problems arising from evacuation or the use of premises for other than educational purposes. However, the outbreak of war resulted in a diminution of material on these files. Administrative history: The 1904 Regulations for Technical Schools made provision for grants to be paid for attendance at 'courses of organised instruction in science or science and art of students who had completed a three years' course in a recognised secondary school or had reached the age of sixteen and were qualified by their previous general education to benefit from them'. The 1905 regulations provided aid for 'day technical classes' and by 1912 there were 111 institutions conducting day technical classes, some of which were recognised in 1913 under separate regulations as junior technical schools. Technical day classes were subsequently defined in the schedule to the Regulations for Further Education, 1926, as 'mainly vocational or domestic and normally in part-time or full-time courses' and some classes known as trade schools provided part-time courses related to particular trades for school leavers. The provision of technical education by means of day or evening classes, or part-time or full-time vocational courses were regarded for the purpose of the Regulations for Technical Schools, 1905 and subsequently the Regulations for Further Education, 1926, as constituting a 'school'. Following the definition in Section 114(1) of the Education Act, 1944, of a 'school' as relating to the provision of primary or secondary education, technical schools ceased to be so known. In the period immediately following the first world war the Board of Education took the lead in co-operation with professional institutions in initiating National Certificate Schemes for technical work such as mechanical engineering, chemistry, and building. As a result of the outbreak of war in 1939 building projects were cancelled and the expansion of technical education generally curtailed, although in some cases workshop blocks were allowed to be completed. As the need for increased production became apparent many technical schools, through their workshop facilities, became actively engaged in war production and some engineering and aircraft companies formed their own technical schools and classes. Arrangement: Alphabetically in county or county borough order for England and Wales; papers relating to the acquisition of sites and buildings and like matter are given separate piece numbers.
This series contains files of the Ministry of National Insurance and its successors relating to overlapping and anomalous payments of national insurance benefits, and reciprocal arrangements with other countries. Administrative history: Regulations under the National Insurance Act 1946, provided for adjustment to benefit payable to, or in respect of, any person in receipt of a pension or allowance (other than family allowances) from public funds or undergoing medical or other treatment as a hospital in-patient. Payment of sickness benefit was suspended when a recipient was undergoing treatment as an in-patient in a hospital or similar institution. Amendments have been made to the regulations at various times to account for anomalies arising from changes in social circumstances, such as dependent children over school age, married women in full time employment, divorce and cohabitation, and from reciprocal agreements with other countries.
Printed copies of local authority byelaws confirmed by the Local Government Board, 1872 to 1919, the Ministry of Health, 1919 to 1940 and the Ministry of Housing and Local Government, 1953 to 1969, bound for the use of the Legal Branch. Arranged, within each year, alphabetically by locality, covering the whole of England and Wales. Administrative history: Local Authorities were empowered to make byelaws or regulations under various statutes and covering a number of subjects. These byelaws or regulations had to be submitted to the Local Government Board and its successors to be confirmed and approved before becoming operative. The sealed copy was returned to the authority concerned and a copy retained in the Department to provide a comprehensive record. The Annual Reports of the Local Government Board contain lists of Byelaws approved, the names of the local authorities concerned and the subject matter.
Files from the HSY series which was used successively by the Home Office and the Department of Prices and Consumer Protection. The topics covered include home safety standards, electric and oil heating, the dangerous use of plastic material, regulations concerning the sale, manufacture and import of dangerous toys, the use of inflammable materials and water safety. The files were used by the E Division (E4) of the Home Office. Administrative history: From 1 October 1974, the Home Office transferred to the Department of Prices and Consumer Protection some of its responsibilities. These involved home safety and safety of consumer goods (including the making of regulations under the Consumer Protection Act 1961); fire hazards in consumer goods and safety matters relating to the sale of fireworks. Arrangement: By former reference order.
This series consists of minutes and papers of the London Traffic Advisory Committee and its sub-committees. Administrative history: The London Traffic Advisory Committee was established in November 1919 under the chairmanship of Mr. Kennedy Jones. The Committee's task was to co-ordinate and improve London traffic mainly through existing powers, and to consider and recommend a permanent Controlling Authority. Technical sub-committees on traffic regulation, improvement of street facilities, and future development, were appointed and met regularly until the issue of the Commission's report in March 1920. From that date only Sub-Committee no.1 (on traffic regulation) continued to operate, and its functions were absorbed by the new London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee in November 1924.
This series contains the registered files of the Urban Traffic Policy Division of the Ministry of Transport and its successors. The files relate to traffic and parking regulations outside Greater London and to environmental traffic policy. Many concern specific local orders and schemes. Some files in this series have been re-registered from the GT series (otherwise in MT 112) and from the Road Traffic C Division. This series contains examples of re-registered files from both of these divisions. This series also contains some files re-registered from the RTC series (otherwise in MT 113). Administrative history: The Urban Traffic Policy Division was formed in 1966 and took over work of the Highways General Planning Division. It was responsible for traffic and parking regulations outside Greater London and environmental traffic policy. In 1968 the Division was dissolved and its functions split between the London Highways Division and the newly created Transport and Traffic Planning Division.
This series consists of unregistered files from the Roads Department and Roads Transport Divisions of the Ministry of Transport, Ministry of War Transport, and Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation. The serires contains papers and technical data covering various aspects of road transport, including brakes, tyres, lights, windscreens, steering and loading, exhaust pollution etc, together with material concerning vehicle regulations and the development of producer gas for road vehicles. Administrative history: The growth of road transport following the First World War led to the formation of sections of the Roads Department of the Ministry of Transport dealing with vehicle construction and regulation and the licensing and control of passenger and goods transport.
This series contains a selection from a range of internally disseminated instructions, regulations, notices and guidance for Service and civilian personnel, those working in the Ministry of Defence and its agencies and also those in Service Commands and establishments. MOD Manuals: administrative guidance and regulations issued to staff in MOD Headquarters Joint Service Publications (JSP): a series of instructional and regulatory guidance superseding both MOD Manuals and numerous single-Service publications and covering a wide variety of subjects, both administrative and technical Defence Council Instructions (DCI) Civilian: applicable to MOD civilian units and staff DCI Joint Service: applicable to units and personnel of all three Services DCI General: applicable to units and personnel both civilian and Service MOD Personnel Instructions: in 1996 these replaced Defence Council Instructions Civilian and Civilian Management Circulars.
Board of Education files relating to the administration of the Codes of Regulations, 1903 to 1944, in England, Wales and the Isle of Man. Among the more important matters dealt with, are staffing, approval for the purposes of a grant, and some aspects of school attendance. There are also some H.M. Inspectors' general reports. Many of the early papers have a precedent value and they often possess a relevance beyond the Authority of the area concerned. This series of files ended with the Education Act 1944, as the renumbered series dating from 1 January 1945 deals with both primary and secondary schools regulations. For a few authorities there are separate files for particular subjects, and these are indicated in the list. Arrangement: By counties in England, Wales and the Isle of Man.
Registered files of the Ministry of Education and Department of Education and Science, Further Education Branch concerning private and national institutions which received direct grants in respect of further education facilities, under the provisions of the Further Education (Grant) Regulations. Subjects covered include organisation, syllabuses, annual reports, premises, applications for extra grant and minutes of governing bodies. Arrangement: Numerically by counties and county boroughs. Note: Files in the 8200 cut of the T file series
This series contains the Secretary's case files dealing with appeals to the Lands Tribunal (see Tribunals, Administrative) against the determination of the Central Land Board (see War Damage Commission and Central Land Board) of claims to compensation for loss of development values under the Depreciation of Land Values Regulations 1948, the Lands Tribunal Act 1949 and the Town and Country Planning Acts, 1947 to 1954.
This series contains files on liaison between the Health Education Council (HEC) and the Department of Health and Social Security, as well as material concerning an internal review of the HEC. Subjects covered include: alcoholism; smoking; 'better parenthood'; vaccination programmes; training of health education officers; ear piercing; kidney donation; education of handicapped children and young people; 'good neighbour' campaign; foot health education; rehabilitation for the disabled; proposed amendment regulations on medicines labelling; and malaria.
Orders of the Poor Law Commission and Board, and Local Government Board, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Local Government and Planning, the Ministry of Housing and Local Government and the Department of the Environment relating to various aspects of local administration. These include the regulation of schools, asylums, district auditors, and of the duties and powers of poor law unions and local authorities generally.
This series contains files mainly concerning Bills which were considered, drafted or even went through some Parliamentary stages, but were then 'dropped' i.e. they did not complete their passage through Parliament to become Acts. A few files concern other types of legislation (Regulations, Orders, etc.) which were likewise 'dropped' at some stage. The surviving files may not be the entire collection of measures that did not complete Parliamentary passage.
The records in this series concern Treasury policy on industrial competition, mergers and the regulation of industry and stimulating the growth of the industrial sector. The ISM prefix denotes the registry theme 'Industry Sectors and Measures'. Administrative history: The Industry and Employment Division was created in 1981. Its functions were: to assess Treasury policy impacts on industry; industrial employment and expenditure; industrial manpower; industrial sector economic management analysis; measures for industry; and, industrial employment support.
Records concerned with the monitoring of the three year programme to provide legal metrology and advice for the Department of Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform. The Legal Metrology Programme is divided into different themes, and a range of projects with associated deliverables are carried out under each theme. The current programme themes are:- Measuring Instruments Directive, international cooperation, better regulation,e enforcement and consumer protection, innovation, provision of facilities and knowledge transfer.
This series contains files regarding the European Economic Community (EEC), including EEC directives on doctor medical training and language requirements, EEC social security and health care regulations (including the revision of guidance for overseas travellers and the introduction of the E111), health aspects of radiological protection, and implications following Chernobyl. Arrangement: This series is arranged in file reference order (within each transfer).
This series comprises enclosure awards and awards of regulation of commons under the Enclosure Acts 1845 to 1899. Administrative history: The standing Inclosure Commission was appointed to work through assistant Inclosure Commissioners and Surveyors. They were to carry out local enquiries in each case of the proposed enclosure and if the enclosure were sanctioned by parliament on the commission's recommendations, they were to be responsible for the actual work of enclosure and allotment.
These files contain papers of the Civil Aviation Department of the Air Ministry and, from April 1945, the Ministry of Civil Aviation. There are also a few papers, post-1953, of the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation. The series embraces a wide range of civil aviation business, including such matters as airports, air services, flying regulations, and aircraft accidents.
These papers, raised by the Solicitor's Branch of the Ministry of Fuel and Power and which relate to coal nationalization, contain the statements of interest, solicitors' correspondence, compensation units and severance claims of thirty two representative private collieries. At the end of the series are papers on the nationalisation of the coal mining industry, including correspondence with Parliamentary Counsel, and on regulations under the Coal Industry Nationalisation Bill.
Files of the Board of Education and successors, Medical Branch and Special Services Branch relating to the establishment of nursery schools. This series consists of individual nursery school files and contains papers relating to the establishment of the school; application of recognition for the purposes of grant; notes of visits made by officers of the Board of Education; and annual summaries of the school's accounts. Administrative history: Local education authorities were empowered under Section 19 of the Education Act, 1918, re-enacted as Sections 21 and 119 of the Education Act, 1921 to supply, or aid the supply of, nursery schools and classes for children between the ages of two and five years. Regulations for nursery schools (Grant Regulations No 6) were issued in 1919 indicating the conditions under which the Board of Education would recognise such schools for the purposes of grant. A new and simplified set of Regulations for Nursery Schools was issued in 1925 (Grant Regulations No 19). Several voluntary nursery schools in existence in 1918 were recognised for grant purposes. The gradual increase, however, of nursery school provision was arrested during the ensuing years by recurring financial crises. Section 8 2b of the Education Act 1944, required authorities to have regard 'to the need for securing that provision is made for pupils who have not attained the age of five years by the provision of nursery schools or, where the authority consider the provision of such schools to be inexpedient, by the provision of nursery classes in other schools.' Arrangement: By counties and county boroughs for England and Wales.
Signed minutes, and in some cases attached correspondence, draft regulations and other papers of the General Nursing Council and its committees. Administrative history: The Nurses Registration Act 1919, which established the General Nursing Council, enabled the Council to constitute committees and delegate work to them. Subsequent amendments to the constitution and names of the committees were made by later Acts, particularly the Nurses Acts of 1949 and 1969.
This series contains files relating to media ownership and departmental commissioned research into media related topics. Administrative history: The Media Division was set up in 1993 as one of three divisions in the Broadcasting, Film and Sport Group. The division had responsibility for broadcasting (international policy, programme standards); TV licensing and broadcasting finance; press (freedom and regulation); and films (UK and international matters)
This series contains policy work relating to money laundering legislation, Financial Action Task Forces, financial fraud, City competitiveness, wider share ownership, wholesale markets, financial sanctions issues, tax matters affecting financial institutions, financial institutions not allocated elsewhere, fraud, leasing, consumer credit, the Trustee Investment Act, policy on pensions regulation, The Bank of England, The Royal Mint, currency and coinage and economic advice on financial institutions and markets. Arrangement: Files are listed chronologically in file prefix order.
Ships' ledgers were instituted by regulations established by Admiralty circular letter No. 53 of 21 September 1872. The ledger was to record the full pay and allowance of every officer, man and boy on board, and all necessary particulars as to victualling. The introduction of this system made unnecessary the record and establishment book, the open muster book and the description book.
This series includes a variety of material, including some early correspondence; rules and regulations; progress reports; scientific and technical papers; monographs about the history of the Ordnance Survey; catalogues; maps and plans; and published booklets, information leaflets and gazetteers. There are a number of papers of Major-General William Roy, FRS (1726-1790): originally of the Royal Engineers, he served as Deputy Quartermaster-General, Engineer in Ordinary and Surveyor-General of Coasts.
This TF series consists of registered files relating to traffic control within the Metropolitan Police District. The records relate to matters affecting the control of traffic, arrangements for special events, parking, road safety and regulations relating to vehicles. The series also includes matters relating to diplomatic privilege and fatal accidents. Arrangement: By former file reference order within each accession
The series related initially to both seeds and fertilisers. In 1955, however, seeds became the responsibility of Labour, Machinery and Seeds Division (and its successors), which used the SDS file series. It deals with regulation of supplies of fertilisers to farmers and growers, including many files on the Fertiliser Subsidy Schemes created under the Agriculture (Fertilizers) Act 1952.
This series comprises Consumer Protection files. These files cover general policy and regulatory issues, for example revisions to Codes of Practice issued under Section 40 of the Food Safety Act 1990; consultation papers, general discussion, technical review leading to formal submission and briefing for the Minister. They also cover the development of proposals and subsequent discussions around proposed changes to UK Technical Standards and Regulations in order to implement EC Directive 83/189.
This series includes the minutes and memoranda of the Standing Inter-Departmental Committee on Censorship, and the proceedings and memoranda of its sub-committees. Subjects covered include the organisation of censorship in time of war or emergency, the Handbook of Censorship Regulations, and censorship of different media including wireless, telegraphy, film and mail. Administrative history: The Standing Inter-Departmental Committee on Censorship was established by the Committee of Imperial Defence in 1924. Arrangement: Chronological by committee and then by sub-committee
Minutes of meetings of the Advisory Committee on Street Collections. Administrative history: In response to public concern at the large number of collections being made on the streets, the Metropolitan Streets Act 1903 was introduced (amending the earlier Act of 1867) to give the Commissioner of Police the power to regulate and control the holding of street collections for charitable purposes. These regulations required that applications for permits be made to New Scotland Yard. Revised regulations were introduced in 1910 under which permits were no longer required, the conditions being incorporated in the regulations. Certain other restrictions were also placed on the conduct of the collections. The Advisory Committee on Street Collections was appointed by the commissioner, with the approval of the secretary of state, in 1915 to consider all applications and it was the policy of the committee to refuse applications from organisations where the aims or activities may give rise to controversy, or where the money collected is to be devoted to objects outside the United Kingdom. The committee was to comprise representatives from charity and social welfare societies and the Mendicity Society and the perpetual chairman of the committee was to be an assistant commissioner. The secretariat was provided by the Commissioner's Office, L1 Branch and successor branches. Under the Charities Act 1992 police were due to relinquish this responsibility. However, by March 2000 the advisory committee was still meeting on an annual basis and chaired by Ch. Supt. CO20 Branch. Representatives on the committee included the London Mayor's Association, Association of London Government and the London Voluntary Services Committee. Physical condition: Volumes pre-printed to be used as Occurrence Books but used as scrapbooks for typed minutes
Minutes and papers of committees set up by the Ministry of Food or on which it was represented. They include such bodies as the Combined Food Board, the International Sugar Council, the Profit Margins Committee, the International Wheat Conferences 1947 and 1949 and the International Wheat Council. Administrative history: The committees in this series were set up under the regulations made during World War II, some of which continued until the amalgamation with the Ministry of Agriculture in 1955 and after.
Files in this series deal with a variety of topics related to the supply and distribution of milk and milk products, including transport matters; retail supply; financial matters; long-term policy on production, supplies and prices; milk and dairies regulations; quality milk and liaison with the Milk Marketing Board. Includes some files re-registered from the NDM file series: MAF 309.
This series contains selected files from the Commodities and Agricultural Co-operation Division of the Agriculture Department. Administrative history: The Commodities and Agricultural Co-operation Division was set up in 1978. It was responsible for livestock and arable commodities, milk and milk products, including liaison with the Milk Marketing Board and for regulations concerning most aspects of Welsh agriculture. It lasted until 1982, when its title and responsibilities changed. The file series ran until 1995.
This series deals with wartime control of land and land cultivation under Defence Regulations for agricultural purposes and with the appointment and powers of War Agricultural Executive Committees. Subjects also include the ploughing up and cultivation of lands, fen drainage, the improvement of fenland roads, the requisition, management and disposal of the Wissington Light Railway and notice to quit.
Records created by the various Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food divisions concerned with the licensing of slaughterhouses. The series covers all aspects of regulation and licensing policy for public and private slaughterhouses, including preparation of legislation; local authorities' powers and responsibilities; safety, hygiene and cruelty, etc. Many early LSP files contain papers re-registered from the Ministry of Food slaughterhouse policy C2 series opened in 1936 ( MAF 74 and MAF 88).
Papers concerning schemes for the payment of maintenance allowances submitted by local education authorities for the approval of the Board of Education; financial scrutiny by the board of the reasonableness of the proposed scales of aid; approval by HM Inspectorate of the educational requirements and returns by local education authorities of expenditure on maintenance allowances. No papers were added to these files after the introduction of the Education Act, 1944. Maintenance allowances were not awarded by all authorities and this accounts for the gaps in this series of files. Administrative history: Section 23(2) of the Education Act, 1902, gave power to the newly formed local education authorities to assist education other than elementary by providing scholarships and paying fees within or without the authority's area. This power was extended initially under Section 11 of the Education Act, 1907, to the provision of scholarships and bursaries to pupils at public elementary schools from the age of twelve up to the limit of compulsory school age and subsequently under Section 24 of the Education Act, 1918, re-enacted as Section 24 of the Education Act, 1921, to include power to provide allowances for maintenance. Local education authorities qualified for parliamentary grant subject to conditions set out in the Provisional Code of Regulations for Public Elementary Schools in England, 1922;(Separate Code for Wales and Monmouthshire.) the Elementary Education: Regulations for Substantive Grant for financial year 1924-1925 Amending Regulations No. 1.1924 and subsequent regulations. Arrangement: By counties (including Part III Authorities) followed by county boroughs for England and Wales.
Files in this series relate to general matters dealt with by the Standards Division including implementing the recommendations for the revision of building regulations and codes of practice following the partial collapse of flats at Ronan Point in the London Borough of Newham in 1968, participation on the UK/France/Germany Tripartite Committee for Standardisation and consideration of EEC Article 100 on Technical Barriers to Trade. Arrangement: The files are arranged in numerical order by former reference.
Policy work on science, research and development, with some operational work, largely of administrative nature regarding Research Councils and various Government bodies. Administrative history: From 1994 the Education, Heritage and Science Division (ETE1) were in the Public Enterprises Group within the Industry Financial Regulations Sector. Before ETE1 was created Education, Heritage and Science Divsiion was HE2. The previous prefix was HESB, and the successor prefix is COOCD Arrangement: Files are listed chronologically in file prefix order
This series contains Colonial Office correspondence relating to Zanzibar. The files contain in-letters and subsequent action including minutes and drafts of out-letters. The records relate to all aspects of internal administration, including public health, policing and economic regulation especially of agriculture and the clove industry. Administrative history: Zanzibar became a British protected state in 1890. Responsibility for Zanzibar was transferred from the Foreign Office to the Colonial Office in January 1914.
This series contains annual reports of the Director General of the Water Services, concerning the provision of water services, under section 35 of the Water Act 1989. Subjects covered include the regulation of drinking water, prices and the standards of service. Administrative history: Under section 35 of the Water Act 1989, the Director General of the Office of Water Services was required to publish an annual report by 31 December each year. Arrangement: Arranged chronologically by transfer.
These are the general files of correspondence and papers of the Board. They relate to professional midwifery questions such as the use of particular drugs and equipment; the male midwifery training programme; the work of the Board in connection with the regulation of midwifery and assistance to midwives; and the affairs of the Board itself, including relations with related bodies and the Board's financial and business transactions.
Files of the Board of Education Technical Branch and Ministry of Education Further Education Branch relating to the provision of short courses at further education colleges, art schools and evening institutes maintained or assisted by Local Education Authorities. The files contain correspondence, syllabuses, handbooks and inspectors' reports. Administrative history: Short courses were provided for teachers by Local Education Authorities as part of their arrangements for further education under the Further Education Grant Regulations. Arrangement: For England by counties and county boroughs.
Board of Education and successors Technical Branch and Further Education Branch files concerning the provision by universities and voluntary bodies recognised by the Board of Education under the Board of Education (Adult Education) Regulations 1924 as 'Responsible Bodies', of tutorial classes for adult education. This series of files was started in 1927 and it absorbed a few earlier papers relating to applications by national associations for recognition The files contain correspondence and interview memoranda concerned with, inter-alia, recognition; increased numbers in classes; 'Fourth Year' and 'Advanced' classes; and include HM Inspectors' reports and Annual Reports or financial statements submitted by the 'Responsible Bodies'. The papers concern in addition to tutorial classes of three years duration, courses of a similar character related to a shorter period, ie terminal courses and university extension lectures. Administrative history: Tutorial classes evolved from the union of interests of the Workers' Educational Association and the University of Oxford in a movement designed to increase and enlarge facilities for adult liberal education. Tutorial classes were recognised by the Board of Education and grant aided under the regulations of 1908-1909. Special grants were subsequently made under the Regulations for University Tutorial Classes in England and Wales 'in aid of part-time Courses in subjects of general as distinct from vocational education, given under the educational supervision either of a University or University College, acting directly or through a Committee or Delegacy, or an educational body containing representatives of a University or University College and constituted expressly for such supervision'. Provision for adult education was subsequently embodied in the Further Education Grant Regulations 1946. Arrangement: Pieces 1-153 are listed under the headings England, Wales and General; of these pieces 1-100 are listed in alphabetical order of institutions and organisations and pieces 101-153 are in numerical file sequence. From piece 154 onwards the files are in numerical order and the headings have been omitted. Any file number with the prefix 'W' relates to Wales.
Selected files illustrating various aspects of the control of mining exercised by the Industrial Department of the Home Office until 1920. Most of the papers deal with the work of the Inspectorate in enforcing safety regulations in mines and quarries. The series includes a set of district returns of coal-cutting machinery used and tonnage produced in the year 1902. Contains a few records of the petroleum departments.
This series includes minutes of meetings of the Commission and evidence submitted by outside organizations. Administrative history: The first meeting of the Royal Commission on Transport was held on 18th October, 1928 and its final meeting on the 19th December, 1930. The Commission published three reports: 'The Control of Traffic on Roads'; 'The Licensing and Regulation of Public Service Vehicles', and 'The Co-ordination and Development of Transport.'
This series deals with war legislation commonly referred to as defence regulations. The regulations were devised to deal with the practical running of the UK following a nuclear war or during a conventional war. Examples of the effect of the regulations are revised penalties for offences, registration of births, marriages and deaths, censorship in wartime and restrictions related to banking and cash. The files also discuss the setting up of regional commissioners to deal with local issues, for example the sentencing of offenders in the event of the breakdown of centralised government and also specific conditions relating to Scotland, Northern Ireland, Channel Islands and Isle of Man. These papers contain principal policy papers which led to primary or subordinate legislation in which the Home Office took the lead. They include submissions to Parliamentary Counsel and also papers created during the formulation, implementation or interpretation of major policies affecting England and Wales, Northern Ireland, Scotland, the Channel Islands and Isle of Man. They also show the interaction between the Home Office and other government departments covering key areas of public life. The series also covers non military counter-measures including trade sanctions against East Germany and restrictions on the movement of people from Berlin following the erection of the Berlin Wall in 1961. There is also a review of emergency powers in response to the Cuban missile crisis of 1962.
Documents of the Ministry of Education and Department of Education and Science, Architects and Building Branch relating to the development, progress and policy of building of educational premises since the second world war. The first part of the series (G 692) shows how the shortage of labour and materials affected the school building programme just after the war. The comments and suggestions of the working party set up pursuant to s10 of the Education Act 1944 towards the laying down of building regulations are contained in G 758 files. Four volumes of precedent notings are preserved, one on air raid precautions, two on miscellaneous aspects of school building and the last on Building Regulations 1951 and 1954. The remaining part of the series (G 847-G 897) contains papers concerning the work and administrative procedures of the branch; work of the Development Group on the control of annual building programmes, cost analysis (statistics) and building regulations; development policies; research on planning requirements and equipment; and relations with professional bodies and manufacturers. It covers all aspects of building, including fire precautions and internal fittings. Arrangement: By file number order (apart from precedent notings).
This series consists of a sample of cases where appeals were made to the Minister of Health by doctors against decisions of the Medical Practices Committee in filling vacancies, under the National Health Service (General and Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations 1948 and 1954 s.10. It also includes appeals by doctors against local executive councils' decisions to disallow fixed annual payments. Administrative history: The National Health Service (General Medical and Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations 1948 and 1954 s.10 granted the right of any doctor to appeal to the Minister of Health against the decision of the Medical Practices Committee with regard to the filling of a general practice vacancy for which the doctor had unsuccessfully applied. The minister after considering all the relevant facts regarding the type of practice and comparing the qualifications and experience of the applicants gave a final decision either to uphold the original selection or reselect another applicant with or without an oral hearing. The National Health Service (General Medical and Pharmaceutical Services) (Amendment) Regulations 1948 s.2(8)(i) granted the right of appeal by a general practitioner to the Minister of Health against his local executive council's refusal to pay him a fixed annual payment. The fixed annual payment of £300 was paid to practitioners whose annual income declined due to the commencement of the National Health Service and thereby the loss of private fees.
This series contains ministerial orders on the rationing, distribution, pricing and general control of food and animal feedstuffs, also covering licensing of producers and traders. A few files on general policy and correspondence with interested parties are included. The papers cover with a few exceptions the years 1939 to 1955. Administrative history: The Ministry of Food under a legal adviser, advised the Minister of Food on matters of constitutional, civil and criminal law. It was responsible for drafting regulations, orders and directions made by the minister under powers conferred on him by the Defence Regulations, the Food and Drugs Acts and other statutes, and for drawing up, approving and settling any licences, agreements, contracts, authorities, warrants, notices and other legal documents which were necessary for carrying out the ministry's schemes of control, the putting into effect and enforcement of its regulations and the protection of its commercial activities. The department also advised on claims by or against the ministry and, when necessary, arranged with the Treasury Solicitor for the conduct of litigation and arbitration. Arrangement: The series comprises of an initial deposit of 610 pieces arranged in chronological order and generally dated between 1939 and 1955 when the Ministry of Food was merged with the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. A second deposit of 91 pieces made in 1985 is similarly arranged, but also includes papers dated between 1956 and 1968.
Reports, published annually as Parliamentary Papers. Administrative history: The Gaming Board for Great Britain was appointed by the Home Secretary in November 1968 under the Gaming Act 1968, much of which did not come into operation until July 1970. Its functions are to consider applications for certificates of consent to applications to local licensing authorities for the licensing of premises for gaming, certificates for the supply and maintenance of machines and certificates for the staff of gaming and bingo clubs. It is also responsible for reviewing gaming in Great Britain and advising the Home Secretary and local authorities on the performance of their duties under the act. The board has an inspectorate responsible for visiting premises licensed for gaming. Its responsibilities were extended by the Pool Competitions Act 1971 and the Lotteries Act 1975. The Gaming Act 1968 and the Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976 set up a system of statutory regulation for gaming and lotteries. The 1968 Act (which was introduced to control the abuses which had followed the deregulation of gaming) enables gaming (comprising casinos, commercial bingo and the supply of gaming machines) to be carried on legally by commercial operations for profit within a tightly regulated system. The 1976 Act enables lotteries to be carried on by societies to assist good causes and by local authorities provided that statutory limits on prices and expenses are not exceeded. The Board itself is only concerned with the regulation of the larger society lotteries and those lotteries promoted by local authorities. Smaller society lotteries are regulated by local authorities. The Board is not responsible for regulating the National Lottery; this is done by the Director General of the National Lottery. The Board's statutory functions under the 1968 and 1976 Acts are: (a) to ensure that those involved in organised gaming and lotteries are fit and proper to do so; (b) to ensure that gaming is run fairly and in accordance with the law; (c) to advise the Secretary of State on developments in gaming so that the law can respond to change. The Board consists of a part time chairman and four other part time members. It is serviced by secretariat staff seconded from the Home Office, and Inspectorate staff who are employed by the Board. The National Lottery etc Act 1993 contained amendments to the 1976 Lotteries and Amusements Act which affected both the registration requirements for societies and the general rules under which both society and local authority lotteries are required to operate.
Capital Issues Committee: The records in this series consist of minutes of meetings, policy files and a selection of case files. Administrative history: The Capital Issues Committees was appointed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer by a Treasury Minute of 12 September 1939 with the following terms of reference: 'To consider and advise upon applications made to the Treasury for consent to the issue of capital to the public, offer of securities for sale or to the renewal or postponement of the maturity date of securities for sale, in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 6 of the Defence (Finance) Regulations 1939'. The committee was the successor of and had the same membership as the Foreign Transactions Advisory Committee appointed by the Chancellor in 1936. The chairman was Lord Kennet and when he retired in 1959, Sir Thomas Frazer succeeded him. Regulation 6 was replaced by the Control of Borrowing Order 1947, a Treasury Order made under Section 1 of the Borrowing (Control and Guarantees) Act 1946. The last Treasury Order under the Act was the Control of Borrowing Order 1958. A General Consent under that Order was issued in 1959, which suspended the main provision of the Order insofar as it affected domestic borrowing and domestic issue of shares and securities, so the committee's function was only to advise on applications by persons resident outside the UK. The administration of these applications was eventually assimilated into that of Exchange Control and the Voluntary Programme in 1967 when a further Treasury Order was made. The committee was dissolved in 1967 but this did not affect the policy governing the control exercised by the Treasury under the Control of Borrowing Order 1958 (as amended by the Order of 1967) but applications for consent under this Order was sent to the Bank of England.
This series contains registered files relating to the protection and policing of the royal parks, including the functions and powers of the Royal Parks Constabulary, park keepers and gatekeepers. The series contains some earlier files which were re-registered into the RPC series from the A and AD series; these were first raised in the nineteenth century and covered all aspects of royal parks administration. One piece ( AT 28/5) dates from 1835; the remainder date from 1948. Administrative history: In 1832, the Surveyor General of the Works was made responsible to Parliament for the maintenance of all royal parks and gardens. When the Office of Works was revived as a separate institution in 1851 its Commissioners took over from the Commissioners of Woods all duties relating to the maintenance of royal parks and gardens. The First Commissioner had specialised powers in connection with the regulation of certain commons and open spaces. Royal parks continued to be administered as a distinct unit within the Office of Works and its successors, headed by the Bailiff of the Royal Parks until 1970 when responsibilities passed to the Department of the Environment (DOE). Responsibility for the Royal Parks Constabulary passed from the DOE to the Department of National Heritage in 1992, and subsequently became part of the Royal Parks Agency on its establishment in 1993. The Park Keeping Force of the Royal Parks date back to 1872, when the park keepers were first given regulatory duties. The Parks Regulations Acts of 1872 and 1926 effectively gave them the duties and responsibilities of a police constable within the confines of each of the royal parks. The Parks Regulations (Amendment) Act 1972 enabled their title to be changed from park keeper to park constable.
Files from the Home Office BUR (Burials and Cremation) series. They include policy, administration and case files. Administrative history: The Home Office is responsible for burials and burial grounds, cremations and crematoria and exhumation under the Burial and Cremation Acts. The responsibilities of the Home Office with regard to burials and burial grounds are as defined by the Burial Acts 1852-1906. The main functions are the issuing of licences (as required by the Burial Act 1857) for the exhumation or disturbance in any way of human remains (except in cases of removal from one area of consecrated ground to another, where a bishop's faculty, rather than a licence, is required), the approval (as required by the Burial Act 1900) of tables of fees charged by ministers at funeral services and the approval (as required by the Burial Acts 1853 and 1900) of the consecration or allotment to any particular religious denomination of any part of a burial ground maintained by a local authority. The responsibilities of the Department with regard to cremation and crematoria are as defined by the Cremation Acts 1902 and 1952 and the Cremation Regulations 1903 onwards. The main function is the revision of existing cremation regulations and the drawing up of fresh regulations. Arrangement: The papers in the series are arranged in numerical order by departmental file reference. The inclusion of a date preceeding a file reference number (as in BUR (1960) 17/1/1) indicates that the year in which the file was created was included in the reference. Thus the full departmental reference of a file listed as BUR (1960) 17/1/1 would be BUR 60 17/1/1.
Registered files of the Board of Education, Technical Branch, and Ministry of Education, Further Education Branch relating to evening institutes. These files contain applications for recognition and approvals of institutes and courses, outlines of the prospectus and syllabus of courses, details of staffing arrangements, inspectors' reports, account forms, particulars of improvements to premises, and general correspondence regarding the administration of such institutes. Some papers relate to the Isle of Man. The series was discontinued for administrative reasons; subsequent correspondence appears on the appropriate Local Education Authority file, or the file for the further education establishment into which the institute has been incorporated. Pieces 597 to 687 were added subsequent to the main transfer. Administrative history: The power to aid higher education, as defined in Part II of the Education Act, 1902, occasioned the merging of evening continuation school and Evening Technical School provision. A large number of unrelated single subject courses became 'group' courses and with other forms for part-time study, were administered, from 1906 onwards, in accordance with the Regulations for Technical Schools and subsequently under the Regulations for Further Education, 1926. Local Education Authorities and other managing bodies provided, within the terms of the regulations, part-time day and evening courses, including day continuation classes and courses at works schools and elsewhere, in a variety of vocational, domestic, art and general subjects. The title 'Evening Institutes' was brought into use by the Board of Education from 1926, for most of the establishments where such courses were held. Arrangement: In county and alphabetical order for England and Wales and the Isle of Man
General finance files of the Board of Education and successors, Accountant General's Department, later Finance Branch concerning general financial policy and administration of grants to local education authorities following the introduction of the Education Act 1918. The files include material on the drafting and revision of regulations relating to building grants, maintenance allowances, teachers' salaries, necessitous areas grant, grants for school meals and milk, overseas expenditure and the financial aspects of various other disparate subjects and on the contributions and administration of teachers' contributions and pensions and of juvenile instruction centres. Second World War papers feature special measures such as apportionment of evacuation expenditure, use of school buildings for war purposes, emergency building labour, purchase tax and victory celebrations. Among the more important subjects covered in the later papers are Parliamentary examination of departmental estimates and accounts, review and relaxation of central government controls over local authority expenditure and rating formulae for voluntary bodies. Other subjects covered include revisions of grant regulations governing pooling of expenditure on advanced courses of further education; teacher superannuation; grants for the arts and physical recreation; methods of financing research bodies, and miscellaneous correspondence between the department, local authorities and interested parties. The series also includes papers of the Local Education Authorities Advisory Committee on Inter-Authority Payments (1948-1968), and papers relating to regulations under sections 6 and 7 of the Education (Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts of 1948 and 1953 respectively, to establish the machinery for local authorities to recover the cost of educating persons not belonging to their areas. Arrangement: Pieces 1-42 are grouped under alphabetical subject headings. The rest are arranged under a revised filing system which was introduced in 1943.
This series consists of the minutes and memoranda of the War Emergency Legislation Committee, 1925-1937, of the Inter-Departmental Committee on the Defence Bill and Regulations, 1935-1937, and of the War Legislation Committee, 1937-1939, together with its sub-committees. Administrative history: The War Emergency Legislation Committee was established by the Committee of Imperial Defence in 1924, and the War Legislation Committee which succeeded it was appointed in 1937. These committees were part of the group of pre-war committees whose activities were largely co-ordinated by the Joint Oversea and Home Defence Committee. Arrangement: Chronological by committee
Files, proceedings and reports of the White Fish Commission. Administrative history: A White Fish Commission was established by the Sea Fish Industry Act 1938, following the recommendation of the second report of the Sea Fish Commission. It was required to advise on matters relating to the White Fish industry and to perform certain functions such as the preparation of schemes and regulations and the maintenance of a register of producers, distributors, processors and retailers. It was suspended on the outbreak of war in 1939, and under the Sea Fish Industry Act 1951 was replaced by a White Fish Authority.
This series contains correspondence and papers relating to the management and regulations of royal parks and other open areas in the care of the Office of Works and its successors, including buildings located within such areas. The series also contains plans and drawings, deeds, licences and agreements. The majority of files in this series were registered in the AD and AL and AL series, although some are from the AE and AK series, and some earlier papers are in unregistered folders. Some files date from after the creation of the Department of the Environment and the Property Services Agency.
The Black Books of the Honourable Society of Lincoln's Inn contain the records from 1422 of the society's internal administration. The books include minutes of proceedings of the Governing Body, details of the appointment of officials, admissions, yearly accounts of the Pensioner and Treasurer, regulations for the admission, education, maintenance and conduct of members, and details of the investigation and punishment of offences by members. Also accounts relating to special occasions and activities such as building work, coronations, battles, etc. and from 1518 lists of those called by the Society to its bench and bar.
Board of Education and predecessors papers relating to general subjects concerned with secondary education. Before 1921 the files formed an unnumbered series relating to general subjects concerned with Secondary Education and were identified by their descriptive titles. Subsequently a 'Numbered' series of general files was introduced which keyed subject titles to a registration of consecutive numbers (i.e. S401.). Papers from the 'Unnumbered' series were transferred to the 'Numbered' [current-1954] series wherever continuity of subject matter could be maintained. The 'Numbered' series contain, inter alia, the papers of the Regulations for Secondary Schools 1903-1904 and subsequent years; memoranda and reports concerning the teaching of specific subjects in secondary schools, e.g. Engineering, History, Languages, Music, and the training of Art teachers; conditions for the payment of grant; and the provision of Advanced Courses. The papers define the board's policy, following the Consultative Committee's Report, 1911, in regard to external examinations for secondary schools and the thought given to the conduct and maintenance of uniformity of the examinations. In another field the papers examine the effect of raising the age limit of entry from secondary schools of boy clerks to the Civil Service. The papers reflect the difficulties associated with approval for grant in aid of provision made in accordance with the Regulations for Secondary Schools which prior to the introduction of Section 44 of the Education Act, 1918, lacked statutory authority. The files also record the use by local education authorities of powers under Section 71 of the Education Act, 1921, to aid by means of maintenance allowances, the 'supply' of higher education. Files also reflect the volume of protests evoked against restrictions imposed by the Regulations of 1922-1923 and subsequently by the Regulations of 1933-1934. Papers of the Second World War period record (among other wartime financial arrangements) details of the award of special places and payment of fees in respect of evacuees and payment of grants to children of servicemen; staffing problems; modifications of conditions for examinations and the award of various academic certificates; the training of school-leavers for employment; and the expansion of the Cadet Corps. Some files contain indexes. Arrangement: By code number.
Papers in this series, which consist mainly of Private Office papers and those kept by the Unemployment Assistance Board and successors' secretary, Sir Donald Sargent, record the activities of the Unemployment Assistance Board, the Assistance Board and the National Assistance Board. They contain the boards' policies and procedures for implementing the various regulations made under the Unemployment Assistance Act 1934 and subsequent legislation. Also included are; minutes of meetings, circulated memoranda, unpublished reports of the Unemployment Assistance Board and the Assistance Board; minutes of committees and conferences of regional officers or controllers and reports of district officers.
This series contains national insurance files relating to the introduction and administration of social insurance schemes and allied services under the Ministry of National Insurance. The records are largely concerned with insurance regulations and their interpretation in various cases. A number refer to related legislation and a few reflect post-war regional organisation. Some also concern disclosure of information policy. Some papers of the National Insurance Advisory Committee are included as well as one file on national registration and a number of registered files inherited from the Ministry of Health; a few refer to the transfer of functions from that ministry and the Ministry of Labour.
This series contains records on subjects including City Technology Colleges, grant-maintained schools, the registration and regulation of independent schools, testing and assessment, and Records of Achievement. Administrative history: Schools Branch 4 was created in 1988 and had four divisions: Division A was responsible for City Technology Colleges, independent schools, the assisted places scheme and music and ballet schools; Division B was responsible for grant-maintained schools; Division C was responsible for school examinations and later for long-term planning for school organization and for schools in special measures; Division D was responsible for testing and assessment, the Assessment of Performance Unit and Records of Achievement.
This series consists of files of the Ministry of National Insurance and successors relating to the drafting and administration of the National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Act 1946 and its supporting regulations. Also included are applications to make appeal to the National Insurance Commissioner after an appeal for industrial injuries benefit has been rejected by the Medical Appeal Tribunal, and papers relating to committees set up in connection with implementing the legislation. The series also contains a file concerning injury benefit claims made by rescue workers at the Aberfan disaster, 1966.
Correspondence and papers from the Lord Chancellor's Office dealing with judicial and legal administration. Subjects covered include legislation, including the codification of criminal law; the procedure and organization of central and local courts; bankruptcy, lunacy and wreck jurisdictions; The approval of regulations governing the operations of the Director of Public Prosecutions; the appointment of legal officers; and the staffing of the courts and of departments subordinate to the Lord Chancellor including the Land Registry, the Middlesex and Yorkshire Deeds Registries, and probate registries.
The series comprises registered files of the Economic Policy (Manpower) Division of the Department of Employment relating to advice on economic policy relating to manpower issues. The series covers a number of sociological issues, such as; unemployment, population levels, the mobility and availability of labour, the effects of changes to the benefit regulations; redundancies in particular industries and redundancy payment schemes. Administrative history: The Economic (Manpower) Division of the Department of Employment was responsible for regional policy in reviewing changes in the boundaries and the status of assisted areas. Safety and Health Services were part of the Manpower General Division. Arrangement: Files are arranged numerically by former file reference.
This series contains papers of the Ministry of National Insurance and successors relating to the institution, regulation and amendment of the system of death grants. Administrative history: Death grants, payable to relations of the deceased to defray funeral and allied expenses, were introduced by the National Insurance Act 1946 and were first paid for deaths occurring on or after 5 July 1949. The original conditions of the grant, its amount and the contributions to be made towards it have been amended.
These are the surviving records of the Official Press Bureau. Administrative history: The Official Press Bureau was established in June 1915 under defence regulations from an unsuccessful voluntary bureau instituted by the War Office. The Home Secretary was made responsible for the bureau, which was under the charge of two directors, a journalist and a civil servant. It was responsible for the circulation of news to the press at home and abroad and for censoring the cables of war correspondents. The bureau was wound up in April 1919.
Reports by Board of Education and successors HM Inspectors on secondary institutions which made application to be recognised as efficient under various Education Acts and regulations. The series includes reports by specialist inspectors on particular subjects, replies to a memorandum issued to inspectors in 1932 on the health of school children, and notes of conferences held between the governing body and the panel of inspectors at the time of inspection. HM Inspectors' reports vary in frequency, scope and content in order to meet the board's particular administrative requirements. A full inspection was conducted by a panel of inspectors; occasionally an interim report resulted from a full inspection and subsequent reports are described as 'supplementary', 'follow-up' or subsidiary'. Some files relate to Wales, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. Welsh reports show the extent to which the recommendations of the 1927 Departmental Committee on Welsh in Education and Life, regarding the teaching of Welsh in the Schools, were implemented. Administrative history: The Regulations for Secondary Schools 1906 introduced rules under which secondary schools not eligible for, or not applying for, grant could apply to be recognised as efficient, no charge being made for the resultant inspection. This measure was designed to encourage more schools to raise their standards to those of grant-aided schools. The regulations also provided for the establishment of a periodic list of efficient secondary schools which was first published in 1908. This list included, together with schools on the grant list, schools recognised as efficient either by virtue of an inspection in the exercise of the Board of Education's jurisdiction under the Charitable Trusts Acts or on application as provided by the regulations. Full inspections of secondary institutions were required to show that they had an adequate staff, provided a suitable curriculum and efficient instruction, as well as possessing suitable premises and equipment. Schools in the Channel Islands, Isle of Man, public schools and other secondary institutions such as the Royal Military College, although not subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Education, also applied for inspection by the board. Secondary education in Wales, originating mainly from the Welsh Intermediate Education Act 1889, was the subject of separate inspections by both the Board of Education and the Central Welsh Board; the latter's administration produced many short subsidiary reports on a school at almost annual intervals. Arrangement: By local education authorities, which mainly reflect the old administrative counties that were in existence when the reports where written. They do not reflect the current county boundary lines. The item numbers have been generated automatically for system reasons and do not appear on the files.
Entry books of out-letters (mainly before 1849) to the Surveyor-General and Inspectors of Prisons, the Hulk Establishment, the governing bodies of convict and local prisons, government departments, and individuals relating to British and Irish prison administration, prison buildings, convicts and transportation. Some volumes contain tables of prison regulations certified by the Home Office. Other volumes contain out-letters relating to prison accounts, 1848 to 1849; exequaturs, 1860; consents to compulsory land purchase by the Metropolitan Board of Works and West Ham Local Board of Health for sewer construction, 1851 to 1867; and the distribution of annual volumes of the statutes, 1882-1884.
The records in this series relate to the oversight and regulation by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food of commercial beekeeping and honey producing operations, and deal with honey supply and quality issues, diseases of bees, environmental threats to bees, research into beekeeping, advice to beekeepers and liaison with beekeeping organisations. Administrative history: In 1965, responsibility for control of 'hobby' horticultural activities, including beekeeping, passed from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to the Ministry of Land and Natural Resources. Horticulture Division II handled the remaining commercial beekeeping organisations for which MAFF retained responsibility. Arrangement: Former file reference
Unregistered files concerning training qualifications, and registration of midwives from overseas, and reciprocal arrangements with the Central Midwives Board. Under the regulations of the Central Midwives Board (CMB), nurses and midwives trained overseas, and wishing to work in England and Wales could be exempted from certain parts of the CMB examination and registration procedure, provided reciprocal terms had been agreed between the CMB and its equivalent body in the country concerned. Arrangement: The files are arranged alphabetically by country. DV 12/1 -2 are concerned with countries without files of their own. DV 12/110 -114 are policy files dealing with reciprocal arrangements.
Papers on the training and examination of State Registered and State Enrolled Nurses at hospitals approved by the General Nursing Council. The series includes syllabuses for the training and examination of nurses, schemes and regulations for conducting examinations, lists of approved schools and hospitals and conditions for the approval of hospitals. There are also the papers of the sub-committee of the Education and Examination Committee on syllabus revision. Administrative history: The Education and Examination Sub-committee received suggestions for the revision of the syllabuses, which were circulated before changes were recommended to the Education and Examination Committee.
Board of Education and Ministry of Education files relating to policy concerning the misconduct of teachers and the withdrawal of their certificates as allowed under the Code of Regulations for Public Elementary Schools, the Regulations for Secondary Schools, 1921, and subsequent regulations. Later files include policy on teachers in independent schools, in children's homes with the Control Commission for Germany, and concerning liaison with the police when offences have been committed. Administrative history: The power to issue minutes embodying the conditions of grant for Public Elementary Schools was conferred by Sections 7 and 97 of the Elementary Education Act, 1870, and those minutes, commonly called the Code, contained conditions for the certification of teachers which included powers to recall or suspend on educational grounds the teacher's certificate This Education Code and later the Code Regulations for Public Elementary Schools provided means whereby the Board of Education could bar a teacher from employment in a grant aided school, either temporarily or permanently, who was in their opinion unsuitable on grounds of misconduct or grave professional default. The board was required in such cases to use every available means of informing the teacher of the grounds of the proposed action and of giving him an opportunity for explanation. Statutory sanction was contained in the Elementary School Teachers (Superannuation) Act, 1898, which was concerned with teachers certificated by the Education Department as defined under Section 11 of the act. Where the certificate of a teacher had been cancelled or suspended, the granting of superannuation benefits was conditional on its restoration, or if a teacher was in receipt of an allowance and was guilty of misconduct under section 8, the Treasury could either suspend or determine the allowance in whole or part. Under Section 10(1) of the School Teachers (Superannuation) Act, 1918, misconduct such as would render a teacher unfit to remain in service justified the refusal of superannuation benefits, and what were termed the defaults or demerits of a teacher provided grounds for granting benefits at a reduced rate, but not for refusing them altogether. The board was not able to administer this part of the act without powers to investigate charges of misconduct and the teacher thereby to be given a chance to defend himself. The Regulations for Secondary Schools did not contain such powers, since teachers employed in secondary schools were not subject to Code recognition and there was no real means of preventing offending teachers from being employed in these schools. An article was therefore introduced into the Regulations for Secondary School, 1921, under Section 118 of the Education Act, 1921, which enabled the Board to withdraw recognition of these teachers. This established some uniformity of treatment for the three classes of teachers (provision was made in the Technical Regulations of 1910). The Regulations for Secondary Schools, 1926, contained an amendment which expressly provided that teachers declared by the board to be unsuitable for employment should not be employed. A confidential list of secondary school teachers, whose recognition had been suspended or withdrawn, or who had received a warning from the board was maintained by the board and periodically circulated to HM Inspectors responsible for higher education in order that early notification of the employment of these teachers in secondary institutions could be made. The years spanning the Second World War saw changing attitudes toward some forms of misconduct of teachers resulting from war-time conditions. General guidance for dealing with cases of misconduct was prescribed in all appropriate regulations concerning schools or teacher training. Whilst vigilance and investigation in no way diminished, existing polices and procedures were reviewed in the light of current standards and tolerance of public opinion. The Education Act of 1944 placed a responsibility on the Minister of Education in respect of independent schools, and legislated for their registration and inspection. After due consideration of teacher shortage the minister announced in 1954 her intention to implement Part III of the Act in 1957 and independent school proprietors were invited to cooperate in securing the exclusion from teaching of unsuitable persons. Arrangement: Chronological.
Board of Education Higher Elementary school files relating to schools in England, Wales and the Isle of Man, recognized or proposed for recognition as higher elementary schools. Isle of Wight comes under Hampshire. Administrative history: The Board of Education recognised in the Minute of 6th April, 1900, a class of public elementary schools, known as higher elementary schools, to give a four years' course of instruction to children between the ages of 10 and 15 and to provide a graduated course of elementary science, for which the schools were to receive a higher rate of grant. The 'Cockerton Judgment' of 1901 that the London School Board had acted illegally in providing higher education out of the rates, occasioned a strict supervision of the scope of higher elementary schools A number of applications for recognition of existing schools or the establishment of new schools as higher elementary schools were rejected under Article 110(7) of the 1901 Code of Regulations for Day Schools (Cmd. 513) as 'not necessary having regard to the particular locality'. By 1905 only 39 schools had been recognised, of which 8 had become secondary schools and 1 had reverted to its previous condition as an ordinary public elementary school. Only 6 higher elementary schools were new schools, the remainder were conversions from public elementary schools. Following the introduction in 1919 of the provisions of Section 2(1)(a) of the Education Act, 1918, concerning the establishment of central schools, the board withdrew their regulations for higher elementary schools and separate grants under Article 42(a) of the former Code of Regulations were no longer payable (The Provisional Code of Regulations for Public Elementary Schools in England, 1919) (Cmd. 258). Most higher elementary schools in existence in 1919 sought recognition as central schools or secondary schools and for a year or two a few sought authority under Section 8(5) of the Education Act, 1918, re-enacted under Section 26 of the Education Act, 1921 to continue arrangements for senior scholars.
This series contains case, policy and procedural papers arising from the administration of the Petroleum (Production) Act 1934, which regulates prospecting for petroleum and empowers the responsible minister to issue licences for prospecting and extraction, and the Continental Shelf Act 1964, which concerns the exploitation of minerals in the sea areas adjacent to the United Kingdom, the protection of installations and the control of natural gas supplies. Arrangement: The files in this series have been transferred in more than one batch. They are arranged in previous reference order within each accession.
This series of miscellaneous papers deals with many aspects of the armed forces. Subjects include: conditions of service, letters of attorney, reports on many different subjects, circulars and regulations, claims for losses, clothing, courts martial, and troop accommodation. Many papers are on specific subjects, as disparate as the Chartist Riots, Chelsea Royal Hospital, the Holland Expedition of 1799, the Hong Kong Regiment, Ireland, the Military Knights of Windsor, Newfoundland, the Royal Artillery, the Tower of London and the Waterloo prize list.
This series consists mainly of certificates from the Court for the Consideration of Crown Cases Reserved in notification of judgments and orders on cases referred to it from the Central Criminal Court. Also included is a circular letter of 1850 from the court setting out its regulations and a note of the proposed forms of judgment to be entered on original indictments. There is also a list of cases referred from the Central Criminal Court, 1848 to 1852, and a note of their outcome.
A numbered series of procedural instructions issued to British Council staff serving overseas by its senior management in London. These documents were first issued as 'Overseas Circulars' in 1944 and continued in that form in numerical sequence until 1955 (number 178 of 1955). From 1956 onwards the series was given the more formal title of Overseas Standing Instructions (OSI) and concentrated on personnel matters (subsistence and other allowances), office and staff accommodation, vehicles, inventories of furniture and equipment which were subsequently codified and incorporated into the council's service regulations and instructions and the financial and other handbooks.
Files of the Safety and General Group of the Civil Aviation Department relating to all aspects of air safety pertaining to aeroplanes, helicopters and hovercraft with the exception of medical matters. The subject matter of the files includes: United Kingdom participation in the International Civil Aviation Organisation the development of safety requirements for aircraft, including the Comet and Concorde aircraft testing and certification research into and testing of aircraft safety equipment flight time limitations ground facilities at airfields in the United Kingdom, Africa, Germany and the Middle East the Airbus project weather conditions and their impact on aviation safety This series also contains policy and case files concerning aircrew training and licensing, and air accidents. The Safety and General Divisions used the SG and SGG file series, the Regulations and General Division the ARG series; the Safety and Licensing Directorate (and from 1959 the Flight Safety Directorate) the JH series, and its Training and Licensing Branch the ATL series; and the Overseas Facilities Division the FA series. Administrative history: Upon the formation of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Safety and General Group was formed to deal with safety in the air and on the ground by means of training, licensing of aircraft and crew, and the control of operating standards. The Group also dealt with the registration of aircraft, the drafting of regulations and negotiations for suitable facilities abroad. The Group was itself divided into four divisions: the Operation, Safety and Training Directorate, the Overseas Facilities Branch, the Regulations and Licensing Branch and the Medical Branch. On the formation of the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, these were re-organised to form the Civil Aviation Overseas Facilities Division, the Civil Aviation Safety and Licensing Directorate, the Civil Aviation Regulations and General Division and the Civil Aviation Medical Branch. Following the creation of the Ministry of Aviation in 1959, a further reorganisation resulted in the creation of the Aviation Charters and General Branch, the Aviation Safety Directorate, the Flight Safety Directorate and the Aviation Medical Branch.
A small representative selection of flying log books, mainly of Royal Air Force aircrew, but including some log books of Commonwealth and foreign personnel. Administrative history: Members of the fighting services engaged in flying duties are required to keep a personal record of flights undertaken by them. These records, known as 'flying log books', are declared by the Regulations to be official documents but the compilers are allowed, on ceasing to be employed and after all official action has been taken, to claim their log books. In the event of the death of the compiler on service provision is made for the log books to be claimed by next of kin.
This series contains records relating to the reform of the EU fruit and vegetables regime (EC regulation 2200/96) which permits start-up aid for producer organisations. The records relate to work to reform the start-up aid regime to reflect the policy that access to funds for operational programmes is considered a sufficient incentive for growers. Administrative history: This area was the lead for UK and EU: horticulture, bananas and potatoes policy development, for the sector sponsorship of the Potato Council and Horticultural Development Corporation, the Fruit and Veg Taskforce, liaison with producer organisations and development of the National Strategy for Fruit and Vegetables.
The records in this series cover negotiations over international meat hygiene policies including EEC negotiations and participation by the department in the EEC Veterinary Steering Group, the Meat Hygiene Working Group and the International Office of Epizootics. Administrative history: Animal Health Division IV was set up in 1972 with responsibility for the regulation of meat hygiene and the development of corresponding EEC negotiations. It was renamed the Meat Hygiene Division in 1982 although it retained responsibility for international aspects of animal health matters.
This series covers subjects such as liaison with county councils, tenants' regulations, selection of tenants, smallholdings committees and loans to smallholders, and include the records of the Wise Committee of Inquiry into Statutory Smallholdings. Administrative history: The Agriculture Act 1947 laid a duty upon all county councils, other than the London County Council, in England and Wales to provide smallholdings for letting to persons with agricultural experience, and in particular, to farm workers in order to afford them an opportunity of becoming farmers in their own right.
This series contains ELCI series files of the Safety, Health and Welfare Division of the Department of Employment. The files deal with the implementation of the Employers' Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969, negotiations with interested bodies, the various exemptions, and the formulation of regulations produced under the Act. Administrative history: The Employers' Liabilities (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969, was passed to require employers to insure against their liability for personal injury or decease to their employees arising out of their employment in Great Britain (excluding Northern Ireland). Not all employers were governed by the Act, as it specifically excluded nationalised industries and local authorities.
A series of volumes containing brief information and conditions for entry attaching to competitions, normally published once or twice a year. The Abstracts were also known as follows: Limits of Age and Schemes, 1855-1874; Limits of Age and Subjects, 1875-1890; Rules and Regulations respecting examinations, 1891-1920; Civil Service Examinations, 1921-1939; Abstract of Rules respecting situations filled by nomination, 1949. No copies were printed for 1870-1871, 1893-1894, 1914, 1917, 1920-1925, 1928, 1932, 1935, 1938, 1940-1948.
This series contains files relating to legislative framework for potential supervision of banks, European Community banking legislation, Bingham Enquiry, banking services law, payment systems and legislative framework for building societies, friendly societies, co-ops, industrial and provident societies. Administrative history: In 1994, the Banking and Mutual Division was situated under the Banking Group and there under the Industry and Financial Institutions. In 1995, the Banking and Mutual Division and Banking Group ceased, with the responsibility falling to the Credit Institutions (group), which was situated under the Finance Regulation and Industry Directorate. Arrangement: The records are arranged chronologically and in file reference order.
The papers in this series include departmental committee reports and parliamentary papers relative to the Coal Industry Nationalisation Act, 1946, together with regulations imposed under this legislation. Papers of the Coal Industry Nationalisation Compensation Tribunal are also in this series. Other files relate to national fuel policy, electricity tariffs and legislation on town and country planning. There are files of the Statistics and Planning, Economics and Statistics, Budget and Priorities and Statistics and General Divisions of the Ministry of Fuel and Power, later the Ministry of Power. Contains RL files otherwise kept in POWE 55. Arrangement: Chronological
Entry book and volumes of memoranda, regulations, appointments, authorities and office and registry circulars, etc, including a copy of the lease of the New Palace Yard premises. The series also includes three memoranda written by a former Deputy Controller relating to the history of office policy in respect of pricing and publication, copyright, and purchasing and contracts. There are also registry and office circulars; rules, guides and instructions, examples of mourning stationery, and an account of the dispersal of part of the Office in the 1960s.
Records relating to the preparation of the Gangmaster (Exclusions) Regulations legislation. Administrative history: The series was created in 1975 for the use of Livestock Improvement, Forestry and Labour Division. The Division was reformed in 1977 to become the Agricultural Training, Wages and Plant Health Division, and it continued in this form until 1982. It then became the responsibility of the Agricultural Resources Policy Division in 1982. In 2004 it was the responsibility of the Agricultural Resources Team as part of the Farm Focus Division.
This series includes files concerning establishment, parliamentary and general matters relating to public transport undertakings, including appointments, compensation regulations, pensions and superannuation. Other files relate to both private and public bills with an impact on transport issues and publicity for departmental policy. The series contains some files from the RDD series (otherwise in MT 155) and from the LP series (otherwise in MT 135). Administrative history: The General Division of the Ministry of Transport was founded in 1950. Its work was divided into three categories: establishment matters, other than staffing; general work concerning more than one division; and parliamentary matters.
Records of timber sales from Crown woods acquired by the Tudors in consequence of the dissolution of the monasteries or attainder. Among the more specific items are a manual of regulations for the royal stud, for which certain parks were reserved; a book of presentments by 'regarders and preservators' of royal woods for 1570-1573; books of sales for specific forests, such as Wychwood, Rockingham and Chute, 1545-1546, and Whittlewood, 1595; and 60 petitions from Crown copyholders to the Trustees of 1653 to safeguard their rights (of pasture, pannage, and turbary) in the forests of Waltham and Windsor.
Policy and administrative procedure files of the Welsh Department of the Board of Education dealing with the provision of secondary education and the recognition of pupil teacher centres in Wales. The series contains papers relating to the system of grant payment to local education authorities, enquiries into the teaching in secondary schools of specific subjects; and reports and surveys by HM Inspectorate. It also includes papers of the Departmental Committee on Secondary Education in Wales and Monmouthshire (1919) and Regulations for Secondary Schools in Wales (c 1918). Arrangement: Alphabetically under subject headings to form groups for the periods 1900-1911 and 1912-1935.
The papers consist of printed and other material concerning the slave trade. The papers include regulations, instructions, etc, issued by the Treasury concerning the suppression of the slave trade, 1862 to 1865; draft returns to the House of Commons relating to the slave trade and the High Court of Admiralty generally, 1837 to 1853; papers relating to the Royal Commission on Fugitive Slaves, 1876; records of the East African Slave Trade Committee, 1869 to 1871 and case papers concerning Brazilian claims arising out of British actions in connection with the suppression of the slave trade, 1865 to 1871.
The 1999 annual report of the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets comprised the reports required, in relation to gas under s 39 of the Gas Act 1986, and in relation to electricity under s 50 of the Electricity Act 1989. The second report, covering the whole of calendar 2000 and the first 3 months of 2001 was made under s 5(6) of the Utilities Act 2000. Administrative history: The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets was required by the legislation governing the regulation of these utilities to submit annual reports to the Secretary of State. In accordance with normal practice the reports were published as parliamentary papers.
This series contains minutes, correspondence and reports on the work of the Opencast Executive and its successor British Coal Opencast. Administrative history: Opencast mining started as an emergency measure under the Defence Regulations in 1940 when the Government set up the Directorate of Opencast Coal Production within the Ministry of Works and Planning. In 1945 the directorate was transferred to the Ministry of Fuel and Power. In 1952 responsibility for opencast mining was transferred to the National Coalboard Finance Branch until the Opencast Executive was subsequently set up. This consisted of a part-time chairman and deputy chairman, plus three full time directors responsible for production, finance and administrative functions; from 1967 the latter included responsibility for land matters. The Opencast Coal Act in 1958 replaced the Defence Regulations and a fourth director was added with responsibility for the executive's regional organisation. This divided the supervision of opencast mines between five regional opencast directors. Each region is subdivided into areas covering a number of working sites, which are run by private contractors. In 1990 the name of the executive was changed to British Coal Opencast. Arrangement: This series has been organised in chronological order or by former file reference, where this exists, under separate sub-headings.
Papers on the constitution of the committee, and meetings files of the committee and its sub-committee. Administrative history: The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) set up the first Gas Cylinders and Containers Committee in 1935. Its terms of reference included the consideration of reports produced by the Gas Cylinders Research Committee and the Welded Containers Committee of DSIR and other matters referred to it by DSIR in the light of related scientific developments and changes in industrial practice. The Committee's primary duty was the supervision of research work on behalf of the Home Office, to facilitate the framing of regulations for the manufacture and use of cylinders and containers for the transport of gases. A review of DSIR research committees in 1945 concluded that, since the actual research work was being carried out by the National Physical Laboratory - the Executive Committee of which supervised all its other functions - there was insufficient reason to justify the supervisiory work of gas cylinders and containers research being done by the Gas Cylinders and Containers Committee. Nonetheless, it was felt that the usefulness of the Committee to the Home Office in the field of drafting and revision of legislation and regulations was too valuable to be abandoned, and the Committee was re-constituted in February 1946 as an advisory body appointed by the Home Secretary.
This series contains the registered files (HE series) of the Horticulture Division and includes general EC negotiations, and trading concerns relating to horticultural products. There is consideration of EC regulations and discussions on the effects of implementation on UK trade with other countries, UK intervention arrangements and withdrawal of produce. The series also covers the liaison with trade organisations regarding the impact of the EC regulations on their businesses. Administrative history: Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAFF) Horticulture Division was divided in 1963 to form Horticulture Divisions 1 and 2. Horticulture Division 1 dealt with international trade in horticultural products and the UK's application to join the EEC, grading, standards and plant health. In 1977 the two divisions were once more amalgamated into a single division and in 1989 merged with the Marketing Policy and Potatoes Division to form the Horticulture and Potatoes Division. This HE series was opened in 1972 for use of Horticulture Division 1, Branch A. In 1988 Branch C assumed responsibility and in 1989 it became the responsibility of Horticulture and Potatoes Division and remains their responsibility today.
Registered files of the various Animal Health Divisions, concerning general animal health and welfare issues, including disease prevention and eradication, for example Foot and Mouth Disease, regulation of imports, certification of exports, cruelty; preparation and implementation of legislation, regulations and schemes; and organisation of the State Veterinary Service, including research. The following files contain maps and plans: MAF 287/9, MAF 287/21, MAF 287/50, MAF 287/72, MAF 287/75, MAF 287/152, MAF 287/161, MAF 287/187, MAF 287/203, MAF 287/206, MAF 287/229, MAF 287/230, MAF 287/254, MAF 287/272, MAF 287/276, MAF 287/277, MAF 287/280, MAF 287/283, MAF 287/291, MAF 287/313, MAF 287/325, MAF 287/348, MAF 287/372, MAF 287/376, MAF 287/412, MAF 287/437, MAF 287/438. There are photographs in MAF 287/12, MAF 287/40, MAF 287/134, MAF 287/263 and MAF 287/376. Arrangement: Arranged in former reference order within these accessions: MAF 287/1 -6, MAF 287/ 7 -363, MAF 287/364 -445. Physical condition: Some files contain maps and plans, or photographs.
This series contains a representative sample of files of complaints against dentists made to dental service committees of local National Health Service executive councils and appeals to the Minister of Health against their decisions under the National Health Service (Service Committee Tribunal) Regulations 1948. Administrative history: At the introduction of the National Health Service in 1948, dentists who contracted to join the scheme were bound by their terms of service. Complaints by patients or the representatives of the Dental Estimates Board were considered by the Dental Service Committee of each area's Executive Council (now Family Practitioners' Committee) to establish whether or not the dentist was in breach of his contract. Either party could appeal against the decision: the Minister of Health then decided whether an oral hearing should be held, and if so, one was arranged in accordance with the National Health Service (Service Committee Tribunal) Regulations 1948. Three officers (a barrister and two dental surgeons) were appointed to hear the appeal and to report to the Minister, who would make a final decision. Arrangement: MH 105/1 -158 are arranged in chronological order and in file number order within each year. From MH 105/159 , documents are arranged in original file number order.
The records provide information on the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), specifically, drafting of CAA regulations; terms of initial debt; control of grant-in-aid; appeals against licensing decisions; payment to the Ministry of Defence for search-and-rescue operations. In addition they record regulations on restrictions on flying; air carriers' liability for death and personal injury of passengers; Civil Aviation aspects of the 1974 Health and Safety at Work Bill; the Aerosat (Aeronautical satellite) programme; private pilot licensing and safety control; air accident investigations and air transport of refugee UK passport holders. From 1985, the records are also concerned with the privatisation of the British Airports Authority. Administrative history: Records seem to have first been raised with the current AP prefix in 1974 by Civil Aviation Division 1 (there was an earlier, unrelated AP prefix which was used by branches of Interdependence, Exports and Electronics Industry Division of the old Ministry of Aviation). The AP prefix was also used by the Civil Aviation Safety Adviser's Division. Civil Aviation Division 1 became Civil Aviation Policy Division in 1976. In 1983, with the transfer of aviation functions into the Department of Transport, the functions became the responsibility of Civil Aviation Divisions 2 and 3 (the latter responsible for the Safety Adviser function) where they remained, though Civil Aviation 3 functions appear to have been absorbed into Civil Aviation 2 around 1994/5 when the former division disappears from the record.
Files of the Board of Education, Medical Branch, and Ministry of Education, Special Services Branch relating to the provision of special schools and related problems in the individual local education authority areas. Administrative history: The statutory foundation of special educational provision for handicapped children was laid in the last decade of the 19th Century and remained broadly unchanged until the Education Act 1944. The Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf Children) Act 1893, laid upon every school authority the duty of providing education for blind and deaf children resident in the area in some school certified for the purpose by the Education Department. The Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act 1899, empowered authorities to provide for the training of physically and mentally defective and epileptic children. These powers were made a duty in respect of mentally defective children by the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act 1914, and in respect of physically defective and epileptic children by the Education Act 1918. The implementation of the relevant sections of the Education Act 1944, and their subsequent modification in the Education (Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts of 1948 and 1953, together with changes in provision engendered by the National Health Service Act 1946, marked the post war period of changing attitudes to the needs of special educational provision. The new procedures were laid down in the Handicapped Pupils and School Health Service Regulations 1945 and subsequent Regulations, further enactments being promulgated in 1953 and 1959. Arrangement: Alphabetically in county and county borough order.
The series deals with the appeals procedure policy and Project Board meetings of IACS (Integrated Administration and Control System) which was established by Council Regulation as a key element of the MacSharry CAP reform of 1992. Administrative history: In 2001 the current CAP Schemes Management Division was reorganised to allow for the launch of the new CAP Paying Agency the Rural Payments Agency. A new CAP Schemes Policy Division was created and was part of the Agriculture and Food Industry Directorate. The series deals with the administration of IACS (Integrated Administration and Control System) which was established by Council Regulation as a key element of the MacSharry CAP reform of 1992. The IACS was designed as an anti-fraud and expenditure control system, originally made up of a data base with an alpha numeric identification system for fields or parcels of land, it also had a system for recording animals and an integrated system for claims. From January 2005 the parcel identification system became spatial with the use of GIS.
Deeds of Declaration made by lords of manors, owners of common land or holders of common rights under the Law of Property Act 1925 s.193(2) and Orders of Limitation made by the Minister of Land and Natural Resources, under s.193(1) of the same Act. Both types of instrument regulate public access to commons for recreational purposes. Administrative history: Deeds of Declaration executed by lords of manors or other owners of common land under Section 193(2) of the Law of Property Act 1925, and Orders of Limitation made by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries under Section 193(1) of the same Act. Both types of instrument regulate public access to commons for recreational purposes. Prior to the 5th February 1965 the Orders were made by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries and deposited in the Public Record Office under Series M.A.F.3. On the 5th February 1965 functions under Section 193(1) of the Law of Property Act 1925 were transferred to the Minister of Land and Natural Resources and from that date until the 15th February 1967 Orders were made by the then Minister. On the 16th February 1967 these functions were transferred to the Minister of Housing and Local Government who since that date has been responsible for making the Orders.
Files of the Board of Education, Technical Branch, and Ministry of Education, Further Education Branch relating to the recognition and approval, for the purposes of grant, of adult education vacation courses sponsored by universities and other national bodies. The papers in this series include particulars of students such as previous classes attended; subject of study, and period of attendance; H.M. Inspectors' reports and in many instances prospectuses and director's reports issued by the 'Responsible Bodies'. The papers reflect the flexibility gained by the 'Responsible Bodies' under the Further Education Grant Regulations, 1946. As a result of further changes in assessment of grant following the report of a Committee set up in 1953 on 'The Organisation and Finance of Adult Education', the Vacation Courses papers ceased to exist as a separate series of files. Administrative history: Vacation courses were designed as short residential courses of one or two weeks' duration for persons who, by virtue of attendance at tutorial or other suitable classes, were capable of deriving benefit from the standard of study provided. The courses, originally conducted during the summer months and known as 'Summer Courses', were later extended to provide for diverse types of students, as for example agricultural workers, for whom a summer course was impracticable. These courses were governed by the same regulations as tutorial classes. Arrangement: Alphabetically under counties in England and Wales
Admiralty printed books and pamphlets issued to the Navy in the BR (Books of Reference) series, which did not need inclusion in the security classified CB or SP series. They include regulations and instructions, handbooks and training manuals, reports and works of reference. The subjects dealt with by BRs include almost all those about which officers, ratings or civilian employees might need to be informed, which were insufficiently secret to be issued as CBs. They include all sorts of regulations and instructions, handbooks of weapons and equipment, training manuals, works of reference, historical studies (including the Naval Staff 'Battle Summaries'), reports and studies of damage to ships in action, and the Geographical Handbooks produced by the Naval Intelligence Division. The series also includes some of the similar works produced by the same Division's Interservice Topographical Information Centre for the use of all services. Arrangement: The records are arranged in BR number order within each accession. The BR (Books of Reference) series was started in 1942 when the former OU (Official Use) series was discontinued. Many of the early BRs were renumbered from the OU series, while others were transferred from the CB (Confidential Books) series. The distinction Between these series lay neither in subject nor function, but in security classification: CBs were all graded 'Confidential' and above, as were the SPs (Signed Publications), but OUs were only 'Restricted' and BRs either 'Restricted' or freely available.
Board of Education files relating to local education authority schemes for major awards to students in higher and further education. Administrative history: Under the 1945 Regulations for Scholarships and Other Benefits, major awards were made available to qualified students for courses of education at universities and other places of further education. Regulations were issued with Circular 26 (March 1945) and local education authorities were required to revise their existing schemes of awards in the light of the terms of the circular. Broadly, these were that the value of a major award should be adequate and comparable to that of a state scholarship. Revised schemes submitted by local education authorities were in operation in 1947 but there continued to be considerable variation in practice among authorities. In 1953 new arrangements were embodied in an agreed note on procedure and were recommended to local education authorities in Circular 263 (March 1953) and further revised schemes for university awards were submitted. Further recommendations were made in Administrative Memorandum 425 (1954) concerning awards to students at technical colleges. By the end of 1954 the large majority of authorities had indicated general acceptance of the recommendations regarding both rates of grant and standards of selection. Arrangement: Alphabetically in county and county borough order for England and Wales.
Policy papers of the Board of Education and successors' Technical Branch and Further Education Branch relating to the provision of further education for adults. The files reflect the co-operation between the Board of Education and voluntary bodies in the provision of adult education and include material relating to national and public library schemes, the National Museum of Wales and the National Central Library; courses of instruction by Local Education Authorities and voluntary bodies; adult education in wartime; and post-war plans. The papers also include, inter alia, HM Inspectors' reports on the organisation of adult education provision. A small number of representative specimen files dealing with general correspondence with the Local Education Authorities have been included. In 1944 the 'A' series succeeded the 'T' series files. Administrative history: Further education for adults was provided for under the Adult Education Regulations from 1924 to 1946. They were subsequently incorporated into the Further Education Grant Regulations. Arrangement: The first part of the list is arranged under subject headings, the later files are arranged in numerical order.
Precedent folders of the Ministry of Education Schools Branch containing extracts and copies of correspondence, with associated notes, relating to the implementation of the Education Act 1944, its subsequent amending acts, and various regulations introduced under this legislation. The folders were compiled between 1944 and the mid-1960s, and continued in use until the passing of the Education Reform Act 1988. Administrative history: The nature and scope of the changes brought about by the 1944 Act were such that, in the years following the date of its implementation (1 April 1945), there arose many questions of interpretation and practice which were not adequately covered by the available guidance. A record was therefore kept within Schools Branch of these matters of doubt or difficulty and the decisions taken on them (either by that branch or, perhaps, by Legal Branch), in order that such cases could be referred to again if and when similar questions were raised at a later date. A body of information was thus collected to serve as 'precedents' for the future. It is believed that, to qualify as a true 'precedent', the subject case had to be referred up to at least Assistant Secretary level. Arrangement: The majority of these precedent folders contain papers arranged according to the relevant section of the 1944 Act, or to the other legislation or regulations to which they refer. There are also a number of folders containing memoranda on specific subjects, arranged alphabetically: these constitute ED 190/6 -10.
These records of the Fisheries Department contain entries of the annual returns made by ports of the fishing boats on their registers and contain details of the names numbers and tonnages of all fishing boats and cover five year periods. Administrative history: Section 373 (2) of the Merchant Shipping Act 1894 (Part 4) states that every fishing boat shall be lettered and numbered and have official papers and shall for that purpose be entered in the Fishing Boat Register; and section 373 (5) authorises the making of regulations relating to the adoption of any existing system of registry or lettering and numbering of boats. Statutory Rules and Orders 1927 No. 642 (Regulation 10 (2)) places an obligation on Registrars to forward annually to the Registrar General of Shipping and Seamen a list of all boats which have appeared on the Register during the preceding year. Arrangement: Some fishing boats were registered under the provisions relating to the main Register of Merchant Ships in Part 1 of the Act. In these cases a distinction is made in the list and the relevant part is shown in brackets.
This series consists of the registered files of the Consumer Affairs and Competition Policy Divisions and successors. The files are concerned with UK competition policy and casework on mergers and monopoly, and anti-competitive practices. It also includes files covering legislation and Mergers and Monopolies Commission (MMC) references. The FT file series relates to the development of consumer law, including revisions of the Trades Descritpions Act 1968; the Textile Products (Indications of Fibre Content) (Amendment) Regulations, 1998 and the Resulted in the development of the Consumer Protection (Distance Selling) Regulations 2000. Also charts the funding crisis experienced by the National Consumer Council. Administrative history: The Consumer Affairs and Competition Policy (CACP) Division was part of the Department of Trade and Industry. The Directorate had two broad objectives: to maintain and develop a framework for relations between suppliers and their customers that was fair; encouraged safety and market efficiency. It also aimed to promote effective and proportionate enforcement of UK and EC competition law and to secure improvements in the relevant competition rules, structures and procedures with a view to developing competitive markets in the UK and Europe.
Files from the Home Office LXN (Elections) series, concerning the franchise and registration of electors, the conduct of elections, and the regulation of election campaigns. The series includes departmental files relating to the activities of the Standing Parliamentary Boundary Commission for England, for which the Home Office provided the secretariat until 1969, as well as correspondence with the Local Government Commission for England dating from 1959. Also included are papers concerned with the alteration of local government electoral divisions. Administrative history: The Home Office is responsible for the administration of the electoral process in Great Britain for both parliamentary and local government elections, as principally defined by the Representation of the People Acts 1949 and 1969, the Local Government Act 1933, and the Local Government Elections Act 1956. These responsibilities, currently discharged by 'D' Division of the Equal Opportunities and General Department, and previously by the General Department of the Home Office, include the franchise and registration of electors, the conduct of elections, and the regulation of election campaigns. Arrangement: The papers in HO 328 are arranged in numerical order by departmental file number. The inclusion of a date preceding a file number (as in LXN (1960) 3/4/1) indicates that the year in which the file was created was included in the file reference number. Thus the full departmental reference of a file listed as LXN (1960) 3/4/1 would be LXN/60 3/4/1.
Minutes, agendas and papers of the Occupational Pensions Regulatory Authority (OPRA) Board. The minutes document how the Board oversaw the strategic direction of the authority and how it made key decisions on policy. Administrative history: The Board of the Occupational Pensions Regulatory Authority (OPRA) was established under Section 1 and Schedule 1 of the Pensions Act 1995. It was dissolved in 2004 by the Pensions Act 2004. The board was responsible for the governance of the authority, making decisions on the strategic direction and policy of the authority, and making formal determinations relating to pension schemes that may have breached the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995 or associated regulations. The OPRA Board included the Chairman (a part-time appointment) and nine other part-time members appointed by the Secretary of State after consultation with various representative bodies. Their meetings had either strategic or judicial functions, and took the following forms: the whole Board would meet to provide the strategic direction for OPRA's work; groups of Board members would meet to adjudicate on breaches with a view to determining whether a penalty should be applied to the trustees or employer: and groups of Board members would meet to hear appeals against the Board's determinations in such cases. Different members hear the appeal from those who made the original determination. The committees that reported to the Board included: Audit; Grants, Remuneration, Determinations; Information Technology; Risk Regulation. Arrangement: Minutes, agendas and papers are filed in date order.
This series contains files of the Ministry of National Insurance and successors relating to the National Insurance Local Advisory Committees concerning their functions, regulations and policies on appointments as well as the work of individual committees, selected on a regional basis. Administrative history: Section 42 of the National Insurance Act 1946 made provision for the establishment of local advisory committees; such committees were constituted throughout Great Britain by the National Insurance (Local Advisory Committees) Regulations 1948. The chairman and members, representing both employers and insured persons, were appointed by the minister and each committee was reconstituted at three yearly intervals. The duties of the committees were to consider and advise the minister on questions bearing on the administration of the National Insurance Acts and to bring to his notice any special problems arising from local conditions. In addition, from 1951 onwards, the committees gave the minister advice on the selection of those appointed to panels from which local tribunals constituted under s. 43 of the National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Act 1946 were drawn. Following the establishment of the Ministry of Social Security in 1966, the 224 committees were amalgamated with the 74 National Assistance Board local advisory committees and the number reduced to 141. They were abolished by s. 9 of the Social Security Act 1971.
Registered files selected from various series raised by the Treasury Solicitor's outstation at the Department of Energy and its predecessors the Board of Trade, Ministry of Fuel and Power, and Ministry of Power. The registered files contain correspondence and associated papers arising from legal advice and representation on issues relating to the regulation of coal, gas, electricity and petroleum during and after the Second World War. They cover the period from 1941 to 1974 when the Department of Energy took over the responsibility for the branch records for administrative reasons. The selected records include: Coal - works (e.g. drainage), control of supply and pricing, consumer councils, primary and subordinate legislation for nationalisation, and the European Coal and Steel Community Mines and Quarries - safety regulations (e.g. storage and use of explosives, adequate ventilation) and prosecutions for contravention Gas - Arbitration Tribunal Cases (stockholders' compensation) Industry - loans to Cornwall Tin and Mining Ltd under s.7 of the Industry Act 1972 and reorganisation and subscription for shares in British Leyland Miscellaneous - efficiency loans to industry, and petrol rationing Petroleum - orders under s.3 Continental Shelf Act 1964 and pipeline inquiries under the Tribunals and Inquiries Act 1958. Arrangement: The records are arranged in the order and series in which they were registered; i.e. S/C (Coal), S/CS (Chief Scientist), SG (Gas), S/H (Highways), S/IND (Industry), S/M (Miscellaneous), S/M & Q (Mines and Quarries) and S/MS (Mines: Subsidence) and S/P (Petroleum).
Policy files of the Board of Education and successors, Medical Branch and Special Services Branch concerning nursery education The files include drafts of regulations, circulars, letters and administrative memoranda, papers referred for legal decisions and correspondence with other departments on matters of common policy. Administrative history: Under s 19 of the Education Act, 1918, re-enacted as s 21 and 119 of the Education Act, 1921, local education authorities were empowered to supply, or aid the supply of nursery schools and classes for children between two and five years of age. Regulations for Nursery Schools (Grant Regulations No. 6) were issued in 1919 setting out the conditions under which the Board of Education would recognise such schools, including existing nursery schools maintained by voluntary bodies, for the purposes of grant. The restrictions on educational development contained in the Board of Education Circular 1190 (1921) allowed for Nursery School provision only in special circumstances and on an experimental basis. This ruling continued until 1924 when the position gradually improved and in 1925 Nursery Schools were made a 'special service' under Regulations 34-36 of the Board of Education (Special Services) Regulations, 1925. A circular [1405] issued jointly by the Ministry of Health and the Board of Education in 1929 recommended the establishment of day nurseries, nursery schools, and nursery classes in elementary schools. Reduction of national expenditure, as the result of the financial crisis of 1931, arrested the development of nursery school provision until 1934, and it was not before 1936 (Circular 1444) that local education authorities were asked to make a survey of local needs. The Board of Education was urged by voluntary associations to consider, inter alia, the extension of the age range of nursery school provision, the training of nursery school teachers, and the desirability of specialist qualifications. Special problems arose as a result of the Second World War and guidance was given to local education authorities in Circular 1495 (1945) about the setting up of nursery centres in reception areas. The demand for day nurseries for the children of women war workers led to the issue of joint circulars by the Ministry of Health and the Board of Education stressing the need for the care of such children including the provision of play centres for children of compulsory school age. Responsibility for war-time day nurseries fell to the Ministry of Health while the Board of Education continued to be responsible for nursery schools and classes. Provisions under previous education acts for bursery schools and classes were re-enacted in the Education Act, 1944 which imposed a duty under Section 8(2) on local education authorities to secure provision for 'pupils who have not attained the age of five years by the provision of nursery schools or, where the authority consider the provision of such schools to be inexpedient, by the provision of nursery classes in other schools'. Arrangement: The early papers are arranged in alphabetical order of subject titles. Later records from 1945 onwards, are arranged in numerical order of files.
HM Inspectors' full and interim inspection reports on individual local education authority and non-local education authority further education establishments, and general surveys of the provision of facilities for further education in an area, having regard to the particular needs of the area and in some cases its local industries. These reports were required to show that further education establishments in England and Wales maintained an adequate and efficient teaching staff and that the scope, organization and curricula satisfied the Board of Education's requirements. The earliest records in this series are from 1909, following the re-organisation of the Technical Inspectorate in 1908, which provided for a systematic inspection of the various schools and facilities for further education, in accordance with the terms of Memoranda to Inspectors 'T' Nos 6 and 7. Until 1956, this series includes reports on all types of further education establishments. The series includes material which would otherwise be found in ED 51. Administrative history: Under the Education Act 1902, the power to aid further education was vested in the newly-formed local education authorities. Among the results achieved by that Act were the co-ordination and further development of technical instruction for which, under the Technical Instruction Act 1889, county councils and county borough councils had already been given some responsibilities. Regulations were established for evening schools, technical institutions, schools of art, and art classes, setting out conditions for the payment of grant. Subsequent regulations giving statutory authority for the payment of grant were Grant Regulations No 31, under section 44 of the Education Act 1918, and Grant Regulations No 6, under section 118 of the Education Act 1921. To comply with the conditions laid down in the regulations, schools were required to be open at all reasonable times for inspection and to maintain and adequate and efficient teaching staff with the requisite teaching qualifications. Additionally, they could be required to satisfy the Board of Education as to the suitability of the scope, organisation, courses of study and syllabuses of the school. The Education Act 1944, section 41(1), superceded the earlier legislation and requires local education authorities 'to secure the provision for their area of adequate facilities for further education'. Inspection of individual institutes is made under section 77 of that Act which confers on HM Inspectorate the power to inspect all publicly-funded educational establishments. Arrangement: The pre-1946 reports (to piece 1222) are arranged separately in chronological order for each school, in alphabetical order of district within a county and in order of counties for England, followed by those for Wales. For the 1946-1963 period, the reports have been arranged by grouping one or more together in one piece in chronological order under each LEA. The item numbers have been generated automatically for system reasons and do not appear on the files.
Proposals submitted by local education authorities to the Board of Education in respect of the fees and special places system and the application of such proposals in accordance with the revised draft Regulations for Secondary Schools, to local reaction to this policy change (from the free place system to the fees and special places system) and to the financial saving thereby achieved. The files also contain reports by H.M. Inspectors into free (special) place examinations and for free places files for the period 1907 to 1921. The series closed with the introduction of the Education Act 1944. Administrative history: 'Fees and Special Places' introduced under the Board of Education Regulations for Secondary Schools Grant Regulations No.10, 1933, superseded the 'Free Place' system which came into being in 1907. Circular 1421 of the 15th September, 1932 (170 Wales) issued to Local education authorities, enclosed the revised draft Regulations for Secondary Schools which became operative in April 1933. In the revision of the regulations the board took into account two criticisms, namely, that the system of admitting pupils to secondary schools without regard to the parents' income was needlessly wasteful of public funds, and that fees charged often bore but a small proportion to the cost of the education provided and were frequently not adequate having regard to what parents could afford to pay. It was proposed to charge fees in all secondary schools and whilst places (in future to be called 'special places') would continue to be filled by open competition, the parents of successful pupils would be expected to pay the school fee if their financial circumstances justified it. It was expected that the number of 'special places' offered in any one area, of which a minimum of 25% had to be awarded to successful public elementary school pupils, would normally be similar to the number of 'free places' previously provided. Local education authorities and governors of schools not in receipt of direct grant were, therefore, required to submit their proposals to the board who, whilst not wishing to lay down any definite standards, contemplated, in the first place, complete exemption from fees in the case of a family with an income limit of £3 to £4 per week and one child, plus an addition of 10s. for each additional child or any alternative scheme having equivalent effect. Secondly, while necessarily having regard to the fees charged, the board did not contemplate approving a fee below 9 guineas per year and considered it reasonable that some increases should be made where fees were less than 15 guineas per year. Their proposals should aim to cover not only fees and maintenance but the whole field of aid available to 'special place' holders. The Education Act 1944 extended the provision of free education to all maintained secondary schools and 'free' or 'assisted' places were related solely to direct grant grammar schools. Arrangement: By counties and county boroughs in England and Wales.
Minutes of the War and County Agricultural Executive Committees and their Sub-Committees and District Committees. Administrative history: When the County Executive Committees under the Food Production Department were abolished in 1919 they were replaced by the agricultural committees of the county councils. The Minister of Food could nominate up to one third of the membership of these committees. They had no powers of direction, but exercised all the limited agricultural powers of the county councils. They were abolished by the Agriculture Act 1947. During the war, contact between the ministry and the county committees was maintained through liaison officers, prominent local figures who represented groups of counties to the ministry. These appointments ended in 1945. Under regulation 49 of the Defence (General) Regulations, 1939 the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries was vested with powers for the purpose of materially increasing home food production in England and Wales. Certain of these powers were delegated by the Cultivation of Lands Order 1939 (SR & O 1939, no. 1078) and subsequent orders to the County War Agricultural Executive Committees which were appointed by the minister under regulation 66 of the Defence (General) Regulations, 1939. These powers were drawn in very wide and general terms which enabled the committees to take all necessary measures to ensure that the land in their area of responsibility was cultivated to the best advantage. Under these powers the committees appointed many sub-committees, each of which was entrusted with a definite sphere of responsibility. This relieved the executive committees of the detailed work of carrying the programme into effect. Thus they were left free to consider overall policy matters while carrying out general supervision of the various sub-committees. The Cultivation of Lands Order did provide that proposals to take possession or to terminate the tenancy of any land other than by agreement required the minister's prior approval in writing. In order that the work under the regulations and the minister's order could be carried out in the most efficient manner the counties were divided into convenient districts and district committees were established, without executive powers, to serve as the eyes and ears of the executive and sub-committees in regard to all matters of food production. After the war, part V of the Agriculture Act 1947 provided for the establishment of County Agricultural Executive Committees for each administrative county, establishing the committees on a permanent basis, to concern themselves with the promotion of agricultural development and efficiency. As with the War Agricultural Executive Committees, the County Agricultural Executive Committees set up sub-committees to deal with different aspects of the work. District committees were also formed to give leadership in their areas on the general development of agriculture and horticulture. The act allowed the minister to delegate any of his functions relating to agriculture to the committees, and from 1947 the committees' staff became civil servants employed directly by the ministry. County Agricultural Executive Committees were abolished in 1971.
This series consists of minutes and papers of the Gaming Board. Papers include references to case files which may no longer survive. Administrative history: The Gaming Board for Great Britain was appointed by the Home Secretary in November 1968 under the Gaming Act 1968, much of which did not come into operation until July 1970. Its functions are to consider applications for certificates of consent to applications to local licensing authorities for the licensing of premises for gaming, certificates for the supply and maintenance of machines and certificates for the staff of gaming and bingo clubs. It is also responsible for reviewing gaming in Great Britain and advising the Home Secretary and local authorities on the performance of their duties under the Act. The Board has an inspectorate responsible for visiting premises licensed for gaming. Its responsibilities were extended by the Pool Competitions Act 1971 and the Lotteries Act 1975. The Gaming Act 1968 and the Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976 set up a system of statutory regulation for gaming and lotteries. The 1968 Act (which was introduced to control the abuses which had followed the deregulation of gaming) enables gaming (comprising casinos, commercial bingo and the supply of gaming machines) to be carried on legally by commercial operations for profit within a tightly regulated system. The 1976 Act enables lotteries to be carried on by societies to assist good causes and by local authorities provided that statutory limits on prices and expenses are not exceeded. The Board itself is only concerned with the regulation of the larger society lotteries and those lotteries promoted by local authorities. Smaller society lotteries are regulated by local authorities. The Board is not responsible for regulating the National Lottery; this is done by the Director General of the National Lottery. The Board's statutory functions under the 1968 and 1976 Acts are: (a) to ensure that those involved in organised gaming and lotteries are fit and proper to do so; (b) to ensure that gaming is run fairly and in accordance with the law; (c) to advise the Secretary of State on developments in gaming so that the law can respond to change. The Board consists of a part time chairman and four other part time members. It is serviced by secretariat staff seconded from the Home Office, and Inspectorate staff who are employed by the Board. The National Lottery etc Act 1993 contained amendments to the 1976 Lotteries and Amusements Act which affected both the registration requirements for societies and the general rules under which both society and local authority lotteries are required to operate. Responsibility for the Gaming Board was transferred from the Home Secretary to the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport in June 2001.
This series consists of files of the Road Transport Division relating to freight transport and public service (passenger) transport. Subjects include the regulation and licensing of public service vehicles and staff and of road haulage undertakings operators; rural road services; provision of bus stations by local authorities; trams and trolley vehicles; transportation of radioactive substances; fuel rationing in 1956; fares and charges, including concessionary travel; international road transport matters; the appointment of the Traffic Commissioners and the handling of appeals against their decisions; the drafting of legislation, including the 1952 Transport Bill and the Transport Bill 1967-1968. Also included are papers of the Committee on the Licensing of Road Passenger Services (Thesiger Committee); Committee on Rural Bus Services (Jacks Committee); and the Committee of Inquiry into the Goods Vehicle Licensing System (Geddes Committee). Administrative history: The responsibilities of the Road Transport Division, which emerged in 1940, fell into two major areas: freight transport and public service (passenger) transport. During the period of these files, the earliest of which dates from 1927, passenger transport underwent major changes, chiefly the transition from the trolley and tram to the motor bus, and the gradual regulation of public service vehicles, culminating in the co-ordination of road passenger transport under the Transport Act 1947. Under the Road Traffic Acts 1930 to 1962 and sections of the Transport Act 1962, the RT Division became responsible for general administrative work related to the regulation and licensing of public service vehicles, fares, routes and the provision of bus stations by local authorities; the division was also responsible for the appointment of Traffic Commissioners and the handling of appeals against the Commissioners' decisions. On the freight side, RT Division was involved in the implementation of the Transport Act 1947 which, amongst other things, brought under public ownership long distance road haulage undertakings. RT Division was responsible for general administrative work, including the issue of the 'C' Licenses required by the operators of such undertakings. When the road transport industries were subsequently de-nationalised, RT Division was instrumental in transferring into private hands haulage industry property under the Transport (Disposal of Road Haulage Property) Act 1956. In 1963 the Road Transport Division divided into Road Transport (Goods) and Road Transport (Passenger) Divisions.
This series contains the records of the public inquiry, chaired by The Hon Lord Cullen between 11 November 1988 and 15 February 1990, into the accident on the Piper Alpha offshore drilling platform. The records comprise: the transcript of the proceedings, from Day 1 on 11 November 1988 to Day 180 on 15 February 1990, with index; a list of productions; submissions by interested groups and reponses to submissions; the Report of the Public Inquiry into the Piper Alpha Disaster (Cm 1310); a list of drawings; and a list of productions consisting of cardboard mounts. Administrative history: After announcing on 7 July 1988 that a public inquiry would be held to establish the circumstances and causes of the accident on Piper Alpha, Cecil Parkinson, Secretary of State for Energy made a further statement on 14 July outlining the form the inquiry would take: 'The public inquiry will take place under the Offshore Installations (Public Inquiries) Regulations 1974. These regulations were made under the Mineral Workings (Offshore Installations) Act 1971 and were expressly designed to provide for public inquiries into casualties and accidents involving offshore installations. They provide full powers for appointing assessors, summoning witnesses, collecting evidence and making recommendations.' The inquiry was held in Aberdeen with a preliminary hearing on 11 November and the Public Hearing from 19 January 1989 to 15 February 1990. The Hon Lord Cullen, a Senator of the College of Justice in Scotland, was appointed to chair the inquiry. He was assisted by three assessors, Mr Malcolm Ford CBE, Professor Frank Lees and Mr Brian Appleton. Scottish Law Officers represented the public interest. In addition, a technical investigation was conducted jointly by the Department of Energy and the Health and Safety Commission to establish the cause of the accident and report back to the inquiry. The investigation, by Mr James Petrie, Director of Safety in the Department of Energy's Petroleum Engineering Division, was held under s14 (2)(a) of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and regulations made under the Mineral Workings (Offshore Installations) Act 1971.
Registered files created in the Exchange Control Division. The files in this series cover a wide range of subjects, such as the Exchange Control Act (10 & 11 Geo 6, c 14) and orders, investments, imports and currency. Administrative history: The Exchange Control Division was set up in 1939 when it became a Treasury responsibility under the Defence (Finance) Regulations. From 1948 to 1962 Exchange Control dealt with securities, blocked accounts legacies, emigration, redesignation of accounts, international organisation insurance gifts in cash, the Anglo-American Film Agreement, goods including import and export trade, gold coins, gifts in kind, shipping (other than import and export of currency notes), cheap sterling, enforcement and Exchange Control Act 1947 and prosecution cases, imports and exchange control, import policy, import licensing, imports for exports, overseas expenditure by government departments, commodity markets, mutual aid residual questions, capital investment abroad, foreign investment in the sterling area, royalties, patents and similar company questions. Arrangement: The original numerical sequence of the creating body has generally been followed. As some of the Finance and Exchange Control files were incorporated into the decentralised system, some papers are dated earlier than 1948. Before 1948 the files were dealt with as part of the Finance ( T 160 ) series within the Treasury Central registry system, but the Defence (Finance) regulations were registered under a system peculiar to the division. The files were given the prefix EC (Exchange Control) and a letter after the prefix gave an indication of the subject, e.g. R - Regulation; SA - Sterling Area etc. These files are listed in the first part of the list. When the Treasury adopted a de-centralised system in 1948, the files became ECA (Exchange Control Act). From piece No 349 onwards the ECA files are listed under the decentralised system's subject headings. By 1960 the Exchange Control Act was dealt with in F (H1) Division although papers were registered under the prefix '2ECA'. This arrangement lasted until 1962 when its work was registered under the prefix '2FH'. There are some case files with references (e.g. 'EC2 Case 70') which are not part of the subject theme system.
Registers containing entries, in full, of affidavits sworn in the court of Chancery, including some for which the originals are now missing. Administrative history: On 26 December 1616 Richard Frampton, gentleman, was created register of affidavits by letters patent. Those letters specified that all affidavits should be registered and entered before any other instrument dependent on them, such as an order, decree or report, could be drawn. By 1617 the court was already making an order forbidding clerks and attorneys to evade this requirement. These volumes are not known to have been kept after 1747, although no reason for their cessation is known. The last of many references to the registers in the printed orders of the court was in 1743, when its fees were regulated.
This series contains registered files of the General and Industrial Division and the Industrial and Commercial Policy Division. The files concern such topics as relations with the Hearing Aid Council, legislation and regulations dealing with sale of goods and issue of receipts, proposed new powers to control large firms' expenditure on advertising and sales promotion, consumer credit control, the Committee on Consumer Credit (Crowther Committee), the Committee of Inquiry on Small Firms (Bolton Committee), regional training services, and a review of the legislation concerning hallmarking. The series includes re-registered files which would otherwise be found amongst the records of the Department of Trade and Industry (FV) division: Records of the Industrial and the Industrial and Commercial Policy Divisions and Groups.
Records of the Royal Mint relating to administration of the Coinage Act. They include correspondence and memoranda between the Master of the Mint and the Deputy Master, 1784 to 1850; correspondence with the Treasury and orders and memoranda of the Deputy Master and Controller, 1815 to 1909; minutes of the Mint Board, 1838 to 1851; charters, royal warrants and formal instruments, 1662 to 1770; indentures between the crown and the Master, 1601 to 1817; warrants authorising the continuation of the coinage, 1685 to 1851; orders of the Master and Deputy Master, 1850 to 1921; 0rders of the Privy Council, 1816 to 1871; regulations concerning the Mint and the coinage, and statutory rules and orders relating to the Mint, 1819-1909.
This series consists of a register of drawings of the railways department of the Board of Trade, together with a small number of plans, including some relating to a proposed Channel Tunnel, 1866 to 1870, and some accompanying a report by Robert Stephenson, 1846 to 1847, arising from I K Brunel's proposals, on behalf of the Great Western Railway Company, for mixed gauge railways. The drawings and plans which form this series are the bulk of surviving plans of the Board of Trade Railway Department. Administrative history: The Board of Trade Railway Department came into existence in 1840. In 1844 it was reorganised as a Railway Board; in 1846 this board was dissolved and the Board of Trade's railway functions were passed to an independent Board of Railway Commissioners. In 1851 this was in turn dissolved and the regulation of railways reverted to a reconstituted Railway Department.
This series consists of a single volume (known as 'the Black Book'), which contains brief notes of official inquiries into charges against officers. The cases documented were brought against officers performing a range of duties; the commonest being inspectors of nuisances, and medical officers of health. Other officers were clerks, rate collectors, sanitary inspectors and surveyors, vaccination officers, and public health inspectors. Cases listed in this volume concern infringements of rules and regulations, details of criminal and civil proceedings against officers, cases of fraud and embezzlement, professional misconduct and malpractice, incompetence and votes of no confidence in officers to carry out their duties, and cases of officers discharged on medical grounds.
This series contains correspondence and papers of the National Institute of Houseworkers, comprising policy files, annual reports, training courses, publications, Board papers and minutes. Administrative history: The National Institute of Houseworkers was set up in 1946 as a result of the Report on Post War Organisation of Private Domestic Employment (Cmd 6650) June 1945. The institute was established to supervise the training and placing of women and girls in approved private domestic employment; to award certificates of efficiency; and to regulate minimum wages and working conditions for certified workers placed in approved employment. Residential training centres were set up in London and Swansea. The institute was grant aided by the Ministry of Labour and National Service, though the grant was very much reduced in 1956. In 1962, it was renamed the National Institute of Housecraft Ltd, and was dissolved in 1972.
Entry books of out-letters to inspectors of factories and (1843 to 1855) of mines and of orders relating to the administration of the Factories, Mines and Collieries, and Highways Acts, with some relating to exemption from military service. The series also includes a volume of reports of inspectors of mines, 1851 to 1852. Administrative history: Factory inspectors were first appointed in 1833 under the Factory Act of that year, which regulated the working conditions of children and young persons in mills and textile factories. The Act authorised four inspectors, to report to the Home Secretary on the state of factories and the conditions of young persons employed in them. Superintendents, called sub-inspectors after 1844, were also appointed to supervise the execution of regulations in factories. The inspectors, sub-inspectors and their staff were appointed by the Home Secretary to serve the four districts into which the United Kingdom was divided. In 1844 a central office, known later as the Factory Department or Factory Office, was established under Home Office supervision exercised through the Domestic Department and, after 1896, the Industrial Department. These departments also carried out the specific duties of the Home Secretary under the Factory Acts. In 1878 a chief inspector was appointed directly responsible to the Home Secretary for the operation of the central office and district inspectorates. Later legislation extended both the scope of regulations and the range of industrial activities governed by them, and led to the appointment of specialised medical, electrical, engineering, textile particulars and dangerous trades inspectors. From 1893 there was also a growing number of female inspectors who formed a separate body until they were amalgamated with the male inspectors in 1921. In 1891 sanitary conditions in factories became the concern of the local sanitary authorities and their inspectors, while medical aspects of factory legislation were made the responsibility of the Ministry of Health in 1921. In 1887 factory inspectors were made responsible for the enforcement of the Truck Acts as regards factories and workshops. After 1897 they acted as agents for the Board of Trade in cases of accidents to employees of railway, canal and dock undertakings, referring to the Railway Department of the Board cases involving transport operations. The inspectorate's first medical inspector was appointed in 1898, its first engineering specialist in 1899 and its first electrical specialist in 1902. During the First World War the department undertook to advise the War Office, Admiralty and Ministry of Munitions on industrial matters and the Board of Trade as to reserved occupations. It was also concerned with the adjustment of factory conditions to the employment of women. The department was organised in districts under district inspectors with superintendent inspectors in charge of regional divisions. The clerical staff of the chief inspector's office in the Home Office were organised in a Correspondence or General Branch, and in 1900 a Factory Statistics Branch was established for statistical work under the Factory Act 1895. By 1930 the latter had been transferred to the Statistical Branch. The Factory Department was seconded to the Ministry of Labour and National Service under defence regulations in 1940, and this transfer was made permanent in April 1946.
This series contains correspondence, etc., of the Treaty Department and its successors, including the Prize Court Department, 1914 to 1920, and the Dominions Information Department, 1926 to 1928. Subjects covered include treaty correspondence with other countries; shipping claims against Russia and Japan arising from the Russo-Japanese war; honours and decorations; territorial waters; extradition treaties; nationality; consular and diplomatic appointments; prize courts; diplomatic privileges; civil procedure; marriage regulations; deportation agreements and various royal matters, including state and royal visits. FO 372/3360-3410 are numbers not used. Arrangement: From FO 372/3308 onwards, the number in the former reference column refers to a file number. Dominions Information Papers, which up to the end of 1928 were filed with Treaty (T) papers, were classed separately for the years 1929-1933 inclusive with the letter designation (U).
Handbooks, manuals and memoranda printed for use within the War Office or by the Army, and not included in WO 33. They cover army manoeuvres in England, Scotland and Ireland, staff conferences, handbooks, manuals (including manuals of military intelligence, 1946-1960) and other instructional material, and regulations. Administrative history: During the nineteenth and twentieth centuries it was common for documents to be printed for confidential distribution within the War Office, other military departments and among units. By the 1850s a sub-division of the Chief Clerk's Branch was responsible for such confidential printing and one or other branches of the Central Division of the War Office (C Branches) continued to deal with the printing, distribution and control of material until 1962 when the responsibility passed to one of the security branches. Arrangement: Before 1946 the relevant registered file reference was indicated on the print but thereafter a numerical code was adopted for papers still in current use and for future issues.
This series contains copies of British Civil Airworthiness Requirements, Transports Supersonique Standards and British Hovercraft Safety Requirements as well as papers on requirements policy and procedure. Also included are specimens of Chief Technical Officer Walter Tye's original papers and calculations. These formed the basis for a certificate of airworthiness to be issued. Administrative history: All aircraft on the British Civil Register have to satisfy strict and comprehensive airworthiness requirements. These are drawn up by the Civil Aviation Authority's Airworthiness Division Requirements Section and its successor the Safety Regulation Group, in consultation with manufacturers and other interested parties. The requirements are formally embodied in British Civil Airworthiness Requirements (BCAR) and, for supersonic aircraft, in Transports Supersonique Standards (TSS).
Board of Education Technical Branch correspondence with Local Education Authorities relating to the provision of supplementary education facilities, mainly classes of a practical nature, to unemployed adults during a period of extensive unemployment. Administrative history: The Board of Education, in consultation with the Ministry of Labour and in accordance with the general policy of the Government at this period, encouraged Local Education Authorities to offer instructional and recreational activities without charge to unemployed adults. Special classes were held in the evening or during day-time which unemployed students could attend without payment of fees. These classes were mainly of a practical character and a large proportion provided instruction in woodwork, dress making and physical training. The number of classes became less as unemployment declined and special classes ceased at the outbreak of the second world war. The classes were recognised by the board under the Regulations for Further Education. Arrangement: In county order
This series contains records of the Foreign Office Atomic Energy and Disarmament Department, dealing with arms control generally (conventional, nuclear, biological and chemical weaponry), UK policy and bi- and multi-lateral approaches to disarmament questions, non-proliferation issues, treaties and safeguards, nuclear test-ban and nuclear free zone issues, as well as general European security issues including troop reductions. Administrative history: The Atomic Energy and Disarmament Department of the Foreign Office dealt with international issues concerning the military aspects of atomic energy, and the control and regulation of armaments. The department was abolished upon the formation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in October 1968. Responsibility for disarmament questions passed to a new Disarmament Department. An Arms Control and Disarmament Research Unit handled research into problems of arms control and disarmament, while questions relating to military uses of atomic energy passed to the Defence Policy Department. Arrangement: By original file reference
This series contains miscellaneous records, other than registered correspondence, created or held in the Chinese Secretary's Office in the British Legation, later the British Embassy, in Peking. The material includes draft correspondence, drafts and printed texts of treaties, copies of regulations and proclamations, calling cards and textbooks and examination papers for students of Chinese. Arrangement: With the help of a grant from the Oriental Documents Committee of the British Academy, Mr P D Coates, a former member of the consular service in China, and acting Chinese Secretary 1944-1946, worked from 1978 to 1984 to reconstitute the original archival order of much of the registered correspondence and separate out the bulk of the miscellanea to form the present series. The catalogue of this series is based on his work. Neither the original archival arrangement of the Chinese Secretary's Office's miscellanea, nor Mr Coates's intentions in sorting them, is entirely clear.
The files in this series relate to the award and management of passenger rail franchises to train operating companies. Administrative history: Under the provisions of the Railways Act 2005 the Strategic Rail Authority (SRA) ceased to exist from 1 December 2006. The functions of the SRA were divided between Network Rail, the Office of Rail Regulation and the Department of Transport. The SRA prefix was set up for the Department of Transport Rail Group in early 2007 to allow for the transfer of files. Files relate to those operations of the former SRA that dealt with the award and operation of passenger rail franchises to train operating companies. Some files were re-registered to SRA prefix from the OPRAF prefix of the former Office of Passenger Rail Franchising which had been absorbed into the Strategic Rail Authority following the Transport Act 2000.
Correspondence and papers relating to the administrative, ecclesiastical, judicial and parliamentary powers and duties of the Lord Chancellor. Subjects covered include the administration, organisation and staffing of the various courts, commissions, tribunals, and government departments for which he is or has been directly or indirectly responsible; constitutional questions; the drafting and interpretation of legislation; regulations and Supreme Court rules; emergency and wartime legislation, committees of inquiry; patronage and other ecclesiastical matters; the House of Lords; parliamentary elections; the legal profession; legal aid; the grant and issue of warrants, patents, orders; honours; visitorships; colonial and Commonwealth matters and private international law. Some papers relate to matters of concern to the Lord Chancellor as a member of, and legal adviser to, the Cabinet.
The records concern policy work on education and broadcasting. Administrative history: Records of the Higher Education Science and Broadcasting were part of the Education and Broadcasting Division (HE2) in the Home Transport and Education Group until 1991. During this period the group was located in the sectors of Public Services in 1984, Financial Management: Public Services in 1985-88 and Industry between 1989 to 1990. From 1991 the records were contained in the Education Division in the Home and Education Group and Industry Sector changing to the Education, Heritage and Science Division in 1993. From 1994 the Education, Heritage and Science Division (ETE1) were in the Public Enterprises Group within the Industry Financial Regulations Sector. Arrangement: The records are arranged chronologically and in file prefix order.
This series contains disparate material relating to the royal household. Many of the records are original or copy warrants, or entry books of warrants (some indexed), for appointments or payments; unless otherwise stated at piece level, warrants are from the Lord Chamberlain. The records consist of Master of the Ceremonies papers, Treasurer of the Chamber warrant books, Comptroller of the Accounts of the Treasurer of the Chamber warrant books, Great Wardrobe records (mainly copies of warrants, warrant books and receipt books), Jewel Office warrant books, original warrants, warrant books, general and various, petitions, extracts from newspapers, household appointments, tradesmen's appointments, garter and bath ceremony papers, programmes, forms, notes and memoranda. Among the remaining miscellany there are household regulations, precedent books, a variety of orders, and records pertaining to the Lord Chamberlain's jurisdiction over theatres.
Records of the International Whaling Commission's annual meetings, and those of special meetings of the commission itself and of its Scientific Committee. Records of annual meetings comprise agenda, presented papers and a formal record of the proceedings in the form of the chairman's report and the verbatim record of the plenary sessions. The records of the commission's special meetings are similar to those of the annual meetings, whilst those of the special meetings of the Scientific Committee contain scientific papers presented at the meeting, and the concluding report. Also represented in the records are reports and papers of the Scientific, Technical and Finance and Administration Committees and the Infractions Sub-committee which examines compliance with the commission's regulations by member governments. Reports of the Technical Committee's working groups dealing with specific topics are also represented in this series, along with papers of the 1945 International Whaling Conference.
Issues of the periodical Trains Illustrated. The material in this series is non record material originally held in the Library. Administrative history: It is possible that due to paper rationing, early numbers of Trains Illustrated were issued as separate, undated and unnumbered publications under the same title and in the same format. It may be the case that the authorities took exception to this circumvention of the regulations and legal proceedings against the publishers were instituted. Furthermore, strike action may have occurred in the printing works and only a few copies of an octave issue were therefore published. To outmanoeuvre the strikers the publishers recomposed the type and published in quarto in the same style as the Locomotive, Carriage and Wagon Review, owned by the same firm.
This series contains files of the Newcastle Central Office, Overseas Group relating to the administration of reciprocal agreements with overseas governments for the payment of pensions and other social security benefits. The files in this series relate both to the internal concerns of the Overseas Group and, particularly, to the links with the International Relations Division. Administrative history: The Overseas Group at the Newcastle Central Office was set up in 1948 to take responsibility for the operation, though not the negotiation, of reciprocal agreements with overseas countries for the payment of pensions and other social security benefits and, subsequently, for the administration of European Community regulations in this field. In 1974, carrying out the same functions, it became the Overseas Branch of the Office's B Division. It acts in close liaison with the department's International Relations Division, situated in London, whose function is to consider policy in these matters.
Correspondence, reports and memoranda relating to the Western Atlantic seaboard, ranging from Labrador in the north to Central America in the south and embracing the West Indies, and including seven volumes of correspondence arising from the American Civil War. There is also an accumulation of correspondence, reports, conventions, regulations, etc., relating to the Newfoundland fisheries, 1871 to 1912. Administrative history: The Jamaica Division's sphere of operations included Haiti, San Domingo, Nicaragua, Mexico and Central America while the Bermuda-Halifax Division includes correspondence relating to the protection of the Canadian frontier against the Fenians. Arrangement: The pre-1867 records are arranged in Divisions. From 1867 records of all Divisions are brought together in a 'New Series'.
This series consists of minutes and papers of the London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee. The records comprise papers dealing with the formation and organization of the Committee, minutes of its meetings, its working papers, and the preparation of the annual reports it was required to make to the Minister of Transport, and which were laid before Parliament. Administrative history: The London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee was established in 1924 with the purpose of advising the Minister of Transport in the exercise of his powers relating to the improved regulation of traffic within the London Traffic area. In 1933, the Committee was reconstituted with increased local authority representation. The Committee was wound up by the London Government Act, 1963.
This series contains selected Ministry of Transport files involving the work of the Traffic and Transport A Division. Files from the Urban Traffic (UT), series ( MT 137 ) and the Transport Policy Unit (TPU) series ( MT 107 ) were re-registered into the TTPA series. Administrative history: The Traffic and Transport Planning A Division was established in 1968. It dealt with transport and land use studies in urban and rural areas. It was also involved in some aspects of the study of road pricing. Traffic and Parking Orders made up a large part of its work and it also had some responsibility for traffic regulation at airports. The Division was wound up in September 1971 and its work was taken over by the Transport and Traffic Planning Division. Arrangement: No discernable order
This series covers the drafting of legislation and Ministerial submissions on the Market Testing of fisheries protection and the costs involved in providing an alternative civilianised surface surveillance operation, Sea Fishery (Enforcement) Order and a new EC Control Regulation - UK Enforcement Order. Administrative history: Principal legislation to support the various Fisheries Divisions are the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries Act 1903, Sea Fisheries Act 1962 and the Sea Fish Industry Act 1970. A divisional organisation first emerged in the Department in 1957 with the Fisheries Department being divided into a number of different divisions; Enforcement being the responsibility of Division III Over the years further restructuring of the divisions occurred and by 1994 the number of fisheries Divisions had again been expanded to four, with Division IV administering the UK fishing quota, licensing of vessels and enforcement policy. Responsibility now rests with the DEFRA Marine and Fisheries Programme.
These are registers recording the return into the Exchequer of executed commissions in both revenue matters and equity causes, and of writs of dedimus potestatem to take answers and depositions in suits between party and party. For the 16th and 17th centuries the commissions registered in these books are concerned mainly with revenue matters such as surveys of concealed lands, enquiries concerning assessments for taxation, the conduct of revenue officers, lands and goods forfeit to the Crown, and surveys of Crown lands and woods. Although matters concerning the revenue, such as commissions to survey and regulate ports, or for the assessment and collection of hearth tax, continued to be registered in the reign of Charles II (1660-85), by the end of the century such entries are rare and, by the early 18th century, the commissions registered relate solely to matters arising from litigation between party and party, amongst which commissions to take depositions predominate.
This series contains registered files of the Health and Safety Executive's Safety Policy Division (SPD). Since its formation SPD has had responsibility for the formulation of policy and legislation and amendment of existing regulations on fundamental and strategic health and safety issues including: mechanical, engineering, marine, construction, mines, general technical, radiation and noise, special industries, transportation, explosives, railways, transport of dangerous substances, nuclear and hazardous installations, flammables and gases, channel tunnel safety, chemicals. Administrative history: The Safety Policy Division was set up when the Health and Safety Commission and the Health and Safety Executive was established by the Health and Safety at Work etc Act of 1974. It was originally named the Safety and General Group and changed to the Safety Policy Division in the late 1970s. Between 1983 and 1989, Information and Advisory Services joined the Division and it was named Safety Policy and Information. In 1998 the Division became the Safety Policy Directorate.
The letter books in CRES 9 -17, 19-20 and 22, relate to all matters affecting the land revenues of the Crown, and also accounts and office establishment matters. The letter books were discontinued in 1913, but have only been preserved up to 1900. The Treasury report books contain reports to the Treasury on matters affecting the management of the Crown's land revenues for the guidance of the Treasury in issuing instructions to the Office of Woods and in deciding whether or not to sanction its proposed actions. The relevant Treasury letters, minutes and warrants are also entered. The matters dealt with include office establishment regulation; leases, sales or grants of Crown lands; purchase of properties; copyhold enfranchisement; erection and maintenance of buildings; grants of licences to search for gold; and audit of accounts. Most volumes are indexed.
The files relate to incidents and accidents, accident prevention, health, inspection, labour and unions, legal action, mine equipment and fittings, miners' equipment, local and departmental organisation, pit ponies, quarries and slagheaps, regulations and legislation, rescue, storage in disused mines. Until 1920 these are records of the Industrial Department of the Home Office, thence until 1942 of the Health and Safety Division of the Mines Department, and subsequently of the Safety and Health Division of the Ministry of Fuel and Power. Arrangement: Pieces 1-315 of this series are arranged in alphabetical subject order. Pieces from 316 onwards are listed in numerical sequence according to their departmental file number order. Subjects headings (with subject codes) have been prefixed to individual pieces.
This series contains correspondence and papers and registered files relating to the maintenance of the old Palace of Westminster; the fire of 1834; the acquisition of land for the new Houses of Parliament and approaches; the design, erection, decoration, furnishing, equipment, regulation and maintenance of the same; the demolition and rebuilding, 1944 to 1952, of the war-damaged House of Commons; and the maintenance and equipment of the Palace since 1952. There are a few papers relating to accommodation for state trials and trials of peers in Westminster Hall and the House of Lords, 1709-1873. Most of the files were registered in the AE series, with a few relating to the roof of Westminster Hall in the AM series. Some earlier papers are in unregistered folders. A few files date from after the creation of the Department of the Environment and the Property Services Agency.
Reports and transcripts of inquiries, which were kept by the National Dock Labour Board (NLDB) Head Office for reference purposes. Several of the inquiries were held at the request of the Minister of Labour under the Industrial Courts Act 1919 and the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act 1946. One report results from a Royal Commission, others from departmental inquiries. A number concern the Docks and Harbours Act 1966. Some pre-date the creation of the NDLB in 1947. The documents are all bound volumes (except for BK 29/7 and BK 29/16 , which are in file covers). They contain printed reports, which in some cases are command papers, and printed or typed transcripts and minutes of evidence.
This series contains registered files of the Traffic Area Co-Ordination Dvision of the Department of Transport and successors. The series records relate to the co-ordination of policy and practice in traffic areas, the co-ordination of vehicle enforcement with the Vehicle Inspectorate, operator and vehicle licensing for goods vehicles and public service vehicles, and associated regulations. Administrative history: The records were created by the Traffic Area Co-ordination Division (TACD) of the Department of Transport from 1993 to 1997. The Division was replaced in 1997 by Traffic Area Network Unit (TANU). TANU continued to use the TAC prefix Arrangement: The records are arranged in former reference order within each accession
Selected records from a single series of registered files of the Treasury Solicitor relating to work on behalf of the Ministry of Aviation. The series is prefixed with AV ('Aviation'). The files illustrate the legal aspects of the work undertaken, such as investigations of aircraft accidents and submissions to the Committee on Civil Aircraft Accidents (Cairns Committee), investigations of infringements of patents, disputes over royalties, appeals under the air operators' certificate regulations, questions relating to London (Heathrow) airport, development of the Concorde aircraft (the Anglo-French agreement), government intervention in the aircraft industry following the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Aircraft Industry (Plowden Committee), and questions arising from contracts with suppliers. Arrangement: The files are arranged by their original file references, based on a consecutive numbering system.
Books which record rules (ie orders) made by the Court of King's Bench in particular cases upon a motion by counsel for the parties or, much less frequently, general rules to regulate court practice. The entries are in chronological order under the dates of the days on which they were made, and so incidentally provide a record of the court's sitting days. They include many entries of orders to return to gaol prisoners who had been brought to the bar of the court, and they often include quite long lists of prisoners. The books were kept by the Clerk of the rules on the Plea Side of the court. The series is virtually complete between the opening and closing dates. There are indexes from 1792 to 1802, in IND 1/7622 -IND 1/7628 and IND 1/7536/1 -IND 1/7537/16.
This series contains files relating to the Advisory Committee on Irradiated and Novel Foods (ACINF): papers and minutes of meetings. Administrative history: The Advisory Committee on Novel Foods and Processes (ACNFP) is a non-statutory, independent body of scientific experts, consumer representatives and an ethicist that advises the Food Standards Agency on any matters relating to novel foods (including genetically modified foods) and novel processes (such as food irradiation). It is an advisory non-departmental public body, sponsored by the Food Standards Agency The primary role of the ACNFP is the safety assessment of notifications of traditional novel foods under regulation (EU) 2015/2283. The committee has published an annual report at least since 1989. Arrangement: This file series is arranged in file reference order (within each transfer).
This series contains informations brought by the Attorney-General on behalf of the various revenue departments, with related pleadings. After 1841, their immediate purpose was to inform the court that there were grounds for bringing a legal action. The informations arise from alleged failure to pay specified duties or taxes, failure to render accounts, and interruptions of Crown leases or intrusion into Crown lands. They include cases on succession duty, corporation and income tax, and the duty on the incremented value of land; hackney carriage licences; breaches of customs and excise regulations; and cases involving railway companies. Early records, prior to 1760, are strays from the Bille files, E 207.
Files concerned with the administration by the Board of Education and university examining bodies of the state scholarship scheme set up in 1920. The files include annual reports by examining bodies on the selection of state scholars, statistics of successful and unsuccessful candidates and material relating to arrangements for the nomination of candidates and the allocation of state scholarships. Administrative history: When the State Scholarship Scheme was instituted in 1920, the various university examining bodies were invited by the Board of Education to assist in the administration of the Scheme by nominating candidates and reserve candidates who were considered capable of successfully following a course of study for a university degree with honours. The essential qualifications for a potential state scholar were attendance at a grant-aided secondary school and success in a second examination approved under the board's regulations for secondary schools but the examining bodies utilized school records and in some cases personal interviews, to ensure that the most suitable students were nominated for the relatively few state scholarships available. The number of state scholarships available under the scheme was initially 200 and of these, 178 were divided amongst the seven English examining bodies, the number allocated to each being based on the average number of entries for the approved second examination from grant-aided secondary schools during the preceding two years. The remaining 22 Scholarships were originally reserved for candidates who had passed a special examination of the University of Wales but in 1927, this examination was replaced by the Higher Certificate Examination of the Central Welsh Board and thereafter, state scholarships were allocated on the same basis in England and Wales. An important feature of the first decade of the State Scholarship Scheme was the requirement that examining bodies should, as far as possible, nominate an equal number of girls and boys. To achieve this balance it was often necessary to select candidates of only the minimum qualifying standard in preference to those of higher quality. In 1930, however, the method of allocation between the sexes was amended and the new regulations provided that the board, in allocating the increased number of 300 state scholarships to the examining bodies, would also direct how many awards were available each year for girls and boys respectively. The allocation was based on the numbers of each sex who in previous years had entered for each of the second examinations from recognised secondary schools. Changes in the State Scholarship Scheme were of a minor nature until 1936, when the number of awards was increased to 360, and the maximum maintainance allowance was raised. In addition the scholarships became available to fulltime pupils in all secondary schools in England and Wales, instead of being confined to pupils in grant-aided schools. Subsequently the regulations were modified in December, 1939, to enable assistance to be given to students pursuing shortened courses of study not leading to an honours degree, and for courses in agriculture which had formerly been barred by the regulations. Arrangement: Alphabetically by titles of the university examining bodies.
Registered files of the Board of Education and successors, Medical Branch and Special Services Branch concerning the provision of local education authority nursery education under s.19 of the Education Act 1918. The papers include proposals by local education authorities and voluntary bodies to establish nursery schools and classes for children between the ages of 2 and 5, memoranda on nursery school provision in particular areas, and the results of a survey made by local authorities at the request of the Board of Education in 1936. Records concerning the provision of nursery schools for the children of women war workers are also included. Sample files from just five local education authorities have been preserved from the period 1956-1966: these concern two (rural) counties, Gloucestershire and Nottinghamshire; London; and two county boroughs, Barnsley and Bootle. The following file was missing at transfer: Essex: Colchester Borough Council N.167L. Administrative history: Local education authorities were empowered under section 19 of the Education Act 1918, re-enacted as sections 21 and 119 of the Education Act 1921, to supply, or aid the supply of, nursery schools and classes for children between the ages of two and five years. Regulations for nursery schools (Grant Regulation No. 6) were issued in 1919 indicating the conditions under which the Board of Education would recognise such schools for the purposes of grant. A new and simplified set of Regulations for Nursery Schools was issued in 1925 (Grant Regulations No. 19). Several voluntary nursery schools in existence in 1918 were recognised for grant purposes. The number of nursery schools was, however, slow to increase during the next fifteen years or so, largely due to recurring financial crises, although a joint circular issued by the Board of Education and the Ministry of Health (Circular 1405) in 1929 had urged local authorities to make a new effort to deal with the 'problem of the start of child life'. A report was issued in 1933 by the Consultative Committee on Infants and Nursery Schools and in 1936 local education authorities were asked to survey the need for provision for children under the age of 5 years (Circular 1444). Many nursery schools were closed at the outbreak of war in 1939 whilst some transferred to rural areas were conducted as residential nurseries for evacuated children. Wartime nurseries were set up in areas selected by the Ministry of Labour and, if HM Inspector approved, the local education authority's proposals were eligible for 100% grant from the Ministry of Health. Subsequent to the Education Act 1944, Circular 75 (December 1945) requested local education authorities to assume, where possible, responsibility for the day nurseries started during the war. Many of the papers between 1945 and 1955 are joint reports on nurseries by HM Inspectors and public health nursing officers. Arrangement: The files are arranged by English counties, English county boroughs, Welsh counties and Welsh county boroughs, with this sequence repeating for successive transfers.
This series contains material, including circulars and memoranda, relating to the establishment of the Health and Safety Commission, its organisation, administration and procedures, and to its responsibilities under the Health and Safety at Work Act, 1974. Included are papers on the reorganisation of the Factory Inspectorate. Also present is material relating to the commission's policy on consultation and liaison with local authorities, its advisory services and committees, health and safety training, safety representatives and committees, research, the inspection of mines and mine regulations, safety in the offshore petroleum and gas industries, nuclear installations, and hazardous substances and their transport. The series also contains files on the commission's responsibility for the Employment Medical Advisory Service and for appointments to the Mining Qualifications Board and the Safety in Mines Research Advisory Board, and evidence submitted to the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution.
The series relates to the drawing up/amending of legislation for the Countryside and Rights of Way Act; Access to Countryside Act; The Commons Act and The Commons Councils Regulations. Administrative history: The Landscape, Outdoor Recreation and Forestry team are responsible for the policy and sponsorship relating to National Park Authorities (NPAs), Green Infrastructure Partnerships, Big Tree Plant, Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONBs), Rights of Way, Town and Village Greens, Commons, Coastal Access and other issues related to protected landscape. The division is involved in the following legislation: Marine and Coastal Access (MCA) Act 2009; Countryside and Rights of Way (ROW) Act 2000; National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949; Access to the Countryside (Coastal Margin) (England) Order 2010
The Dairy Herd Conversion Scheme was an EEC initiative launched in the UK under the Dairy Herd Conversion Premium Regulations 1973. It encouraged farmers to stop the production of milk and to convert diary cattle into beef herds, through the use of grants. The aim of the scheme was to reduce the surplus of dairy produce (known as milk lakes and butter mountains) which appeared in the early 1970s. This series contains papers relating to the introduction and implementation of the scheme. Administrative history: The Sheep and Livestock Commission was created in 1973 from the relevant sections of the Fatstock, Meat and Meat and Fatstock Planning Divisions. The new division was responsible for UK policy on sheep, goats and wool, the application of export schemes and livestock extensification.
This series consists of papers, minutes and reports of the Port and Transit Executive Committee and its west of England and Bristol Channel sub-committee, together with Ministry of Transport files relating to the dissolution of the Committee and the Home Trade District Committees. Administrative history: The Port and Transit Executive Committee was appointed in October 1915 by the Prime Minister. The Committee was directed to enquire into difficulties and congestion arising at ports and docks, regulate the flow of traffic and co-ordinate the requirements of all interests concerned, while at the same time avoiding as far as possible interference with the normal flow of trade. It was dissolved in February 1921 when the Ministry of Transport assumed responsibility for any matters outstanding.
This series contains records which cover the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) perspective and priorities under the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund Structural Funds Programme. Administrative history: The Structural Funds were monies made available by the European Union and co-funded by Governments and the private sector. There were three Objectives under the funds, with Objective 1 promoting the development and structural adjustment of regions whose development was lagging behind. The programme ran for seven years from 2000 to 2006. Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) responsibility under the programme lay in interpreting EU regulations and ensuring consistency of policy in England between Objective 1 and the England Rural Development Plan, and issuing guidance on scheme management and Programme modifications. Defra also provided policy guidance and IT systems to the Government Offices, the Rural Development Service and the Rural Payments Agency.
Correspondence and papers relating to the medals and stars instituted and bestowed by the Sovereign for servics during the Second World War and subsequent military operations. It includes correspondence and papers on the General Service Medal. It also contains material originated by the Committee on the Grant of Honours, Decorations and Medals and the Committee on the Grant of Honours, Decorations and Medals in Time of War. Administrative history: Campaign stars and medals could be related to the war as a whole, or to separate campaigns, or to specific activities related to the war. They were available to all who qualified under detailed regulations issued by the relevant branch of the Armed Services. Arrangement: Ceremonial Branch papers were originally stored in racks and when placed in file covers were not numbered in date order. Physical condition: Some files contain maps and photographs.
This series contains audit reports, correspondence, investigation reports and minutes on all aspects of the Audit Department's work. Administrative history: The Audit Department was established in May 1975 to take over from the Finance Department the role of the internal Audit Branch. The department was responsible to an Audit Committee of the National Coal Board which was also formed in 1975. The committee was chaired by the board's chairman and comprised the board's deputy chairman, three full-time and four part-time board members. The main responsibilities of the Audit Department were to help management to improve results, help to ensure maximum revenue is obtained and report on compliance with board policy, the proper performance of standing instructions and statutory regulations. Under a Director-General of Audit who headed the department, there were a Director of Audit (Accounting), a Director of Audit (Technical) and five Audit Managers, representing Northern, Yorkshire, Midlands, Western and Southern audit centres.
This series contains an index to charitable status rejections, by date of decision of the Board and with references to the Board paper serial numbers. Administrative history: Under section 4 of the Charities Act 1960, the Charity Commission was required to retain a register of all charities in England and Wales unless exempt under Schedule 2 of the same Act or by orders or regulations. As well as entering any qualifying organisation, the Commission has a duty to remove any organisation that ceases to operate or appears not to be a charity. Registration is regarded as a proof of charitable status of all purposes. The Charity Commission inherited the function of determining charitable status from the Commissioners of Inland Revenue. Its decisions in this area can be appealed against in the High Court.
This series contains files relating to dispensing services in rural areas. It includes the implementation of the proposals of the Clothier report on rural dispensing and the establishment of the Rural Dispensing Committee. Administrative history: The National Joint Committee of the Medical and Pharmaceutical Professions on the Dispensing of NHS Prescriptions in Rural Areas, more commonly known as the Clothier Committee, was established in 1975, under the chairmanship of Mr C M Clothier QC, to find a solution to disputes between doctors and pharmacists over rural dispensing. The Clothier Report, published in 1977, proposed regulation of changes to rural dispensing arrangements and approval by a representative body. This subsequently led to the establishment of the Rural Dispensing Committee in 1983.
This series contains registered files of the Planning Urban Project Appraisal Directorate which had responsibility for transport planning methods; the Traffic Advisory Unit; urban road planning; and traffic management. Administrative history: The Planning Urban Project Appraisal Directorate of the Department of the Environment was established in 1972. It was responsible for transport planning methods, including transportation studies; the Traffic Advisory Unit; traffic management experiments; urban road planning and other related activities, such as traffic regulations, pedestrianisation and local plans for lorry routing and parking. Prior to 1972 these functions were carried out by the Urban and Regional Professional Division C of the Ministry of Transport from 1968. In 1975 these responsibilities were transferred to the Local Transportation and Roads Directorate and then in 1976 removed from the oversight of the Department of the Environment due to the formation of the Ministry of Transport. Arrangement: In previous reference order within each accession.
These reports are selected from those submitted to the Board of Trade and its successors in 1952 and from 1957 onwards. Reports are required under weights and measures regulations which the Board of Trade and its successors are empowered to make under the Weights and Measures Acts of 1904, 1963, 1979 and 1985. Each local weights and measures authority is required to report on its functions annually to the Secretary of State. The records contain statistical reports of the numbers of weighing and measuring instruments examined, numbers of premises visited, equipment submitted for tests, inspections and testing of trade equipment, staff, fees and salaries. Administrative history: Inspectors of Weights and Measures have been appointed by local authorities under the Weights and Measures Act of 1878 and subsequent Acts. Arrangement: Alphabetically by place name
This series contains files relating to the changes made in administrative arrangements when the Admiralty took over control of Norfolk Flax Limited on behalf of the Ministry of Supply. Administrative history: In 1939 the Admiralty, acting as agent for the Ministry of Supply, took over the Linen Industry Research Association's Norfolk Flax Experimental Station, which was controlled by a small limited company, Norfolk Flax Ltd. The Flax Control was established by the Ministry of Supply in 1939, the first Controller being Sir Harry Lindsay, Director of the Imperial Institute. It was the sole buyer and seller in the United Kingdom and also regulated the spinning, weaving and processing of flax, including tow and yarn, together with the price of some flax products. Responsibility passed to the Board of Trade in 1946, and the control was abolished in 1949, its existing stocks dispersed by the Directorate of Flax Disposals, whose work was completed in 1951.
This series contains minutes and papers of the National Insurance Advisory Committee concerning various matters in connection with the National Insurance Act 1946. Administrative history: The National Insurance Advisory Committee was appointed on 28 October 1947 under s.41(1) of the National Insurance Act 1946 to give advice and assistance to the Minister in connection with the discharge of his functions under the Act. Those functions were to safeguard the insurance rights of old scheme contributors transferred to the new scheme and to provide for people who were to be insured for the first time, including the self employed. Members of the committee examined and reported on preliminary draft regulations, and considered special questions involving difficult problems of insurance on which the minister would seek their advice. The committee was superseded by the Social Security Advisory Committee in November 1980.
This series contains files from the Ministry of Health's 90,000 series (94401-94652) on policy relating to the implementation of the National Health Service Act 1946. The files cover legislation and regulations, administration and financial matters in hospitals and local health authorities, and organization and methods reports from the Hospital O and M Service. A number of files relate to the setting up and development of Whitley Councils for health service employees in general and more specific issues relevant to the Nurses and Midwives Council. A few files contain papers relating to mental health questions prior to the Mental Health Act 1959. Papers of committees and commissions relating to health are included, in particular those of the Committee of Enquiry into the cost of the National Health Service, the Maternity Services Committee and the Standing Committee on Dental Health Education.
This series contains records relating to the Norfolk Broads Experimental Conservation Scheme, ploughing of public rights of way, land reclamation of the Wash and review and consultation on Hedgerow Regulations. Administrative history: The CON file series was opened for the use of Conservation Branch B of the Environmental and Conservation Policy Division in 1986. The Branch covered general matters relating to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food’s environmental responsibilities. In 1988 responsibility for the series passed to Conservation Policy Division with the Environmental aspect transferring to an Environmental Protection Division. In 1995 CPD became Conservation Management Division when it took on responsibility for the Countryside Stewardship Scheme and in 2005 the series came under the responsibility of Conservation, Uplands and Rural Division who were created to administer the new Environmental Stewardship Scheme (successor to the Environmentally Sensitive Areas Scheme). Latterly in 2007 the series became the responsibility of the Environmental Land Management Division and remains so to date.
These files of the Housing sections and divisions of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Housing and Local Government and the Department of the Environment are a continuation of earlier files to be found in HLG 47. They include policy file relating to rents, house building, housing subsidies and improvement grants, and the impact of building regulations on housing. The series also includes files relating to the Housing Subsidies Act 1967, the Rent Act 1965, the Ronan Point building collapse, the sale of council housing and to specific local authority slum clearance and housing development schemes. Includes files re-registered from RB file series, in WORK 75 and files of the Housing Analysis and Monitoring Unit (HAMU), which used the same numbering structure as the general Housing files (H series).
The records comprise of policy work on the following areas: International regulatory co-operation and inter-jurisdiction issues. Information flows and extra-territorial implications. Negotiation of international information exchange arrangements. Insider dealing policy including implementation of EC directive. Council of Europe Convention on Insider Dealing. Company Securities (Insider Dealing) Act and orders under it. Relations with Stock Exchange. Dematerialisation. Administrative history: The records were created by the SIS Division 1 under the Securities and Investment Services Group, this was under the Public Finance Sector from 1992-1993, then under the Industry and Financial Institution Sector in 1994, it then changed to the Finance Regulation and Industry Directorate in 1995-1996. Arrangement: The records are arranged chronologically and in file reference order.
This series contains records relating to actions of the Adverse Reactions Committee and actions taken to safeguard the safety of medicines. Administrative history: The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) was created in 2003. It assumed the responsibilities of the Medicines Control Agency (MCA), created in 1989, and the Medical Devices Agency (MDA), created in 1993. Prior to the creation of the MCA and MDA, the regulation of medicines and medical devices was undertaken by policy divisions in the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC). When the Agency was created the records collection was split between MHRA and DHSC. The files in this series represent those for which MHRA retained ownership
The records concern policy and implementation of the supervisory function of overseeing the operations and practices of banks and deposit taking institutions in the UK. Administrative history: The records were created under the Public Finance (sector), Financial Institutions and Markets (group) and the specific creator in 1992 was the Banking division. In 1993, the names of the creator changed to the Banking and Mutuals Division under the same organisational structure. In 1994, Public Finance Sector was replaced by Industry and Financial Institutions (sector) and Financial Institutions and Markets (group) changed to the Banking (group). In 1996, Industry and Financial Institutions (sector) changed to the Finance Regulation and Industry Directorate and Banking (group) changed to Credit Institutions (group). The origins of banking supervision prior to 1992 are to be found in Domestic Economy Sector, Home Finance Group, which had a Financial Institutions Division (1981). Arrangement: Records are arranged chronologically in file prefix order.
Set of the printed annual reports of the Committee of the Privy Council on Education published as Command Papers relating to the provision of elementary education and the training of teachers in England and Wales, and also in Scotland prior to 1872. Until 1858 they were entitled minutes and reports, but thereafter merely reports. In addition to the report the volumes contain minutes, instructions, circulars and regulations issued by the committee, annual reports of inspectors of schools and teacher training colleges and statistical returns, including (from 1847) various lists of schools in receipt of grant aid. At times these lists contain information on the denomination, month of inspection, annual and building grants, attendance and from 1878 accommodation of each school. There are no indexes.
This series contains files of the Legal Department of the Ministry of National Insurance and its successors concerning health and social security statutes and regulations. The files were registered in the L, LC, LP and LX series, and cover policy matters, the determination of legal questions, civil and criminal proceedings for fraud etc, and internal organization. Administrative history: General legal advice was given to the headquarters divisions on all branches of the work of the Solicitor's Department including court proceedings in both criminal and civil cases. Arrangement: The series have the following designations L1-L900 - Routine questions L2000 et seq - Determination of legal questions LC - Civil proceedings, recoveries case files LC.98/ - Policy files LC/DOM - Internal organisation LP - Criminal prosecutions LX - Oral hearings, case files
The records in this series concern the legislative framework for building societies, friendly societies, industrial and provident societies and the development of policy in this regard. MFI prefix denotes the registry theme 'Mutual and Financial Institutions' which also denoted the name of the specific team carrying out this work in HM Treasury. Administrative history: The records were originally created under Public Finance Sector, Financial Institutions and Markets Group, Banking Division from 1992. In 1993 the Division name changed to Banking and Mutuals Division; the remaining structure stayed the same. In 1995 the Sector became Industry and Financial Institutions. In 1996 a shallower organisational structure was introduced at Treasury whereby the Sector became Finance Regulation and Industry and the Group became Credit Institutions; no division was created. The MFI prefix files was continued across these organisation changes over time until 1997. Arrangement: The records are arranged chronologically in file prefix order.
A very varied collection of entry books, registers, note-books, papers and collections of statistics, the main groups being as follows: Entry books of correspondence with the Divisions and Barracks, and correspondence and circulars from the Inspector General of Marines, 1831 to 1899. Registers and note-books of correspondence, commissions, administrative memoranda, promotions, regulations and orders, and volumes containing notes on the Special Services Brigade, the Royal Fleet Reserve, and on Divisional amalgamations, 1821 to 1923. Twenty volumes of bound up correspondence, on various topics, including establishment matters, medals, pay, savings bank, Portsmouth Garrison, the Royal Marine Artillery, Royal Marine Reserve, Greenwich Hospital Pensions and Prisons, 1798 to 1908. Eleven volumes of papers, 1840 to 1902, concerning the Ashanti, China, Esquimault, Japan and Suakin battalions. Twenty 'Statistical Packets', 1761 to 1924, mostly concerning establishment matters, promotion and returns of numbers. Twenty-seven papers of returns of the State of the Corps, 1869 to 1928.
Files from the Home Office BGL (Betting, Gaming and Lotteries) series. The Home Office has general responsibility for the regulation of betting, gaming and lotteries, exercised mainly through local authorities, the police, and boards. Many of the responsibilities were generated by the Royal Commission on Betting, Lotteries and Gaming. The files in this series deal mainly with the preparation of legislation. Administrative history: The Gaming Board for Great Britain closed and was replaced by the Gambling Commission in 2007. Arrangement: The papers in this series are arranged by departmental file number. The inclusion of a date before or after a file number (as in 1/23/1(1963)) indicates the year in which the file is supposed to have been created, but often it only indicates the year in which the first subfile was raised on a particular subject.
This series contains correspondence, reports and other papers from the Directorate of Scientific Control on the whole range of National Coal Board scientific work. Administrative history: The Scientific Directorate was set up soon after nationalisation. Its chief roles were to check the quality of coal and ensure that statutory health and safety regulations were complied with in all collieries. It was also provided with funding to undertake research and development work in the field when appropriate, rather than such work being passed to central research establishments, and investigated matters such as the outbreak of underground fires and high noise levels in mines. It operated from over 100 laboratories in all coalfields throughout the country. It became a regionalised service in the 1980s, with a small headquarters staff, and was merged into the Technical Department in 1987. Arrangement: This series has been organised in former file reference order, where they exist, and in chronological order, by accession.
The papers in this series are those of the Directorate of Operations Planning and Development of the Civil Aviation Authority and predecessors and are concerned with the development of guidance and regulations for the operations of civil aircraft. Subjects covered include equipment and documentation, registration and marking, aircrew, flying in bad weather and procedures for take-off, approach and landing. Administrative history: The Directorate of Operations Planning and Development is a division of the Civil Aviation Authority's Directorate of Operations. It is responsible for the development of legislation and amendments concerning equipment and documentation, registration and marking, crew composition, operation of aircraft, and aircraft performance. It also deals with the development of guidance and regulatory material on all-weather operations and of criteria for obstacle clearance surfaces and associated procedure for take-off, approach and landing.
This series consists of the minutes, and memoranda of the Imperial Communications Committee (ICC) of the Committee of Imperial Defence (CID), and of the minutes, reports and papers of the committees and sub-committees appointed by the ICC. The ICC was concerned with the establishment of wireless stations in Great Britain and in the colonies; with wireless transmission, international regulation, code and cyphers, and all issues concerned with cabling. Administrative history: The Imperial Communications Committee of the Committee of Imperial Defence was established in 1919 upon a decision of the War Cabinet. Its members included representatives from the Air Ministry, War Office, Admiralty, Signals, Foreign Office, Colonial Office, India Office, Board of Trade and General Post Office. These papers were circulated to members of the Cabinet, the CID, to members of the relevant committees or sub-committees, to representatives of the War Office and to other officials who needed to be kept informed. Arrangement: Chronological within subject
This series deals with legal and contractual aspects of Milk Marketing Board's work. These include the Milk Marketing Scheme 1933 and subsequent amendments; complaints and objections to the scheme, particularly public inquiries; polls of producers; pre-war government policy; agricultural marketing schemes; Ministry of Food wartime control; post-war restoration of Milk Marketing Board powers; European Economic Community regulation and its effect on Milk Marketing Board. Administrative history: The 1933 Milk Marketing Scheme was subsequently amended in 1936, 1937 (twice), 1939, 1950, 1955, 1969, 1977, 1979, 1981 (twice), 1984, 1986, 1987, 1988 and 1992. For example the 1950 Order introduced ministerial appointees to the board, and the 1955 Order a Joint Committee for Consultation with Purchasers' Representatives.
This series comprises registered files containing working papers and submissions to Ministers in respect of Rabies control. Administrative history: In 1986 an Inter-Governmental Commission (IGC) was set up, in the name and on behalf of the English and French governments, to oversee the construction, operation and regulation of the Channel Tunnel (known as the Fixed Link). The IGC is the conduit for discussion between the public services of the two States. The file series opened in 1987 for use by the Emergencies Division. The European Community Division II took responsibility for the series in 1989 due to (i) the team's affinity with the Single Market and (ii) their co-ordinating role in frontier control.
This series contains files and papers relating to the erection and maintenance of public statues and memorials, mainly in London, and the regulation of the use of Trafalgar Square. Most of the files were registered in the AF series, but some earlier papers are in unregistered folders. Some files date from after the creation of the Department of the Environment and the Property Services Agency. Administrative history: The Office of Works first acquired responsibility for statues and memorials in London under the Public Statues Act of 1854. Its responsibilities extended gradually beyond those named in the schedule to the Act, to encompass not merely individual pieces, but also the management of Trafalgar Square and Parliament Square.
This series contains File Office series files from File Office R, which served the Supplies Division. Contains files concerning the supply of drugs, appliances, and equipment in the National Health Service. The topics are wide-ranging, and include a review of the NHS medical stockpile, the organisation of hospital supplies, the supply of poliomyelitis vaccines, packaging and pricing of drugs, economies in prescribing, thalidomide, and the provision of artificial limbs. Also includes papers relating to the Drugs Prices Control Voluntary Price Regulation Scheme and the relationship between the department and the pharmaceutical industry. Administrative history: The Supplies Division was responsible for overseeing the supply of prescription drugs, appliances and equipment in the National Health Service, and the provision of innovative treatment methods (such as the use of lasers in surgery). Arrangement: In former reference order
This series contains agenda, documents circulated and minutes of meetings (from 1920) of the Supreme Court Rule Committee. Files in this series may fill some of the gaps in the records of the Rule Committee in LCO 2. Administrative history: The Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1881 s19 vested the power to regulate procedure in the Supreme Court of Judicature through rules having the force of law. The powers lay with the Lord Chancellor and a Rule Committee consisting of the Lord Chief Justice, the Master of the Rolls, the President of the Probate, Divorce and Admiralty Division and four judges selected by the Lord Chancellor. By 1909 there was also professional representation. The Rule Committee considered the rules, redrafted them, discussed them with masters and registrars, considered proposals and amendments and revoked those which were obsolete. The committee is serviced by the Lord Chancellors's Office.
The records in this series concern the regulation and control of financial institutions and the development of policy in this regard. The 'BMF' prefix denotes the registry theme 'Building Societies Miscellaneous Financial'. Administrative history: The Financial Institutions Division was created in 1982 during the HM Treasury reorganisation of functions. Its remit covered: Bank of England; other banks and deposit taking institutions; Trustee Savings Bank; Girobank; building societies; and, city matters and financial institutions. In 1986 the business unit became FM1 Banking Division under Public Finance Sector; Financial Institutions and Markets Group. In 1992, its organisation changed to Banking Group, Banking and Mutuals Division. Arrangement: Records are arranged in file prefix order.
Correspondence and papers of the Registrar General and the Local Government Board on Censuses taken under the Census Acts 1900, 1910 and 1920, including information on local, special, imperial and foreign censuses. The earlier papers in this series consist mainly of correspondence between the Board and the Registrar General. Three files are of Local Government Board papers and include correspondence with the Registrar General and the London County Council. The later papers concern censuses taken under the 1920 Act, a permanent enactment requiring the Registrar General to make arrangements for taking a census in accordance with the Act, an Order in Council and the regulations made by the Minister of Health. Administrative history: Under the 1900 and 1910 Acts the Local Government Board was responsible for superintending the taking of the census and the Registrar General for issuing the forms and instructions and preparing reports and tables from the returns.
This series contains the registered files of the Driving and Motor Licences Branch of the Ministry of Transport and its successors. The files relate to cars, motorcycles, hovercraft, heavy goods vehicles and bicycles, and include papers concerning vehicle registration and licensing, vehicle excise, driving instruction, driving tests, vehicle insurance, driver behaviour, the international circulation of traffic, and driving licensing, including health requirements. Administrative history: The Driving and Motor Licences Branch, established in 1962 as part of the Vehicle Registration Group, was responsible for the administration of the Road Traffic Acts in so far as they relate to motor insurance, driving and traffic examiners; for the administration of registration, licensing and taxation of vehicles under the Vehicles (Excise) Acts and for the administration of regulations concerned with the international circulation of vehicles. The division later became responsible for the creation and maintenance of the Register of Approved Driving Instructors.
This series includes registered files relating to road traffic legislation, accidents and driving tests. There are also papers of the Committee on Road Safety. The H(TS) series started in 1949 but the present series covers in the main the period between 1946 and 1956 when the division came under the Highways Administration. Administrative history: The Highways (Traffic and Safety) Division dealt with road traffic regulations and restrictions, and considered road safety policy and propaganda. It provided the Secretariat for the Departmental Committee on Road Safety and carried out the management of Road Fund grants for approved road safety schemes conducted by local authorities. The division was concerned with the Road Traffic Acts in connection with driving tests and driving licences, as well as administering the closure of roads under various acts.
This series consists of Statutory instruments, some with seals and some with small plans, for the stopping up of highways under the Defence (General) Regulations 1939, the Requisitioned Land and War Works Act 1945, the Civil Aviation Acts 1946 and 1949, the Supplies and Services (Defence Purposes) Act 1951 and the Town and Country Planning Acts 1947, 1962, 1968 and 1971. Administrative history: Before 1925, the only power to stop up or divert a highway existed under the 1835 Highways Act. The procedure under this Act was costly and protracted and in 1925, a departmental committee was appointed by the Home Secretary to consider legislation to replace the Act. A number of subsequent Acts provided alternative procedures for special purposes only, but the first Act to provide general powers to stop up highways was the Town and Country Planning Act of 1947.
This series contain records relating to the Agricultural Development Scheme which provides funding to farmers and other bodies in the Food Chain who meet the scheme criteria and priorities and make a worthwhile contribution to the Government’s Sustainable Farming and Food Strategy. Administrative history: Policy responsibility for agricultural labour issues, including Agricultural Wages Board, Agricultural Tenancies, injurious weeds, seasonal agricultural workers scheme, sponsorship of Gangmaster Licensing Authority (GLA), Agricultural and Horticultural Development Board (AHDB) and English Farming and Food Partnerships, Agricultural Development Scheme (ADS) and European Union promotion regulations and also remnant work on Food and Farming Board. The work contributes to the Defra objective of ensuring a competitive and sustainable farming industry.
Formal notifications made by the Secretary of the International Whaling commission to the member governments of legal, financial and procedural matters as required by the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. The formal notifications in this series were issued as circulars by the commission following each annual meeting. Circulars were also used to convey other information, not mandatorily required by the convention, of relevance to whales and whaling generally. From the 1960s, as the work of the commission's Scientific Committee grew in importance, circular communications were used by the secretary as a way of maintaining contact with the committee, and to some extent provided a formal channel of communication between the committee and the commission.
The records concern policy and its implementation on regulating banks and other financial and city and deposit-taking institutions. Some of these records concern the Wilson Committee on Financial Institutions. The prefix 'MFC' denotes the registry theme 'Miscellaneous Financial Institutions and City Matters'. Administrative history: The Financial Services Division was created in 1981 and succeeded the Financial Institutions and Savings Division which had both existed under the Domestic Economy Sector, Home Finance Group. Its remit was the coordination of policy with regard to: the Bank of England; prudential supervision of banks and deposit taking institutions; work with the Trustee Savings Banks, National Giro and other financial institutions; policy on building societies and other financial institutions. Arrangement: The records are arranged chronologically in file prefix order.
The documents in this series were maintained by the Prothonotary of the Palatinate Court of Common Pleas and created as a result of statutes regulating attorneys in, inter alia, the Palatinate Common Law Courts. These statutes included the Attorneys and Solicitors Act 1728 (2 Geo II c23) and the Solicitors Act 1844 (6 & 7 Vict c73). The documents include a register of attorneys who had taken the oath and had been admitted, 1730-1875; an attorneys' oath roll, 1731-1793; affidavits of execution of articles of clerkship, 1749-1814; a register of articled clerks based on the affidavits, 1749-1823; a register of attorneys' annual renewal of certificates, 1785-1871; a roll of attorneys of Preston district, 1869-1875; a roll of attorneys normally practising in the courts at Westminster, 1844-1845; and minutes of attorneys' meetings for dinner, 1730-1807.
This series contains files relating to the NHS (General Medical and Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations 1974, research into investigation on human subjects, clinical trials in general practice, Joint General Medical Services Council and Health Departments Working Party, implementation of a white paper promoting better health, Binder Hamlyn Consultancy study of the control of family practitioner service expenditure, Working Group on Services Outside the Hospital for People with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), Primary Health Care and the implementation of the Acheson Report, General Medical Services for the homeless and rootless, review of hospital policy and proposals for the closure of smaller hospitals.
Papers relating to additional duties undertaken by the Unemployment Assistance and Assistance Boards during the Second World War. These include granting of allowances to those evacuated under government schemes, to refugees (including alien refugees) and to those deprived by the war of their normal means of support; also papers relating to those functions, notably the making of advance payments of compensation for war damage, undertaken by the board as agent for other departments. Administrative history: Under the Unemployment Assistance (Prevention and Relief of Distress) Regulations 1939 and the Unemployment Assistance (Prevention and Relief of Distress) (Refugees) Regulations 1941 the board was empowered to grant allowances to persons who were in need as a direct result of the war who would not otherwise have been eligible under the Unemployment Assistance Act 1934. Persons eligible for assistance were mainly those evacuated under Government schemes, refugees (including alien refugees) and those who were deprived of their normal means of support owing to the war. The board also acted as agents for the Ministry of Pensions and were responsible for the administration of part of the Personal Injuries (Civilians) Schemes which dealt with temporary injury allowances granted to civilian casualties whilst their claims to pension were being considered by the ministry. The board also undertook on behalf of the service departments and the Ministry of Pensions the work of investigating the circumstances of persons for whom a dependant's allowance or war service grant had been claimed. Investigation only was carried out whilst entitlement to and the assessment of claims was left to the relevant department. The advance payments of compensation for war damage made by the board in 1940 as agents for the Treasury and later under the War Damage Acts were restricted to cover replacement of tools for business purposes, essential clothing and furniture.
Samples of the Board of Trade's Register of Business Names. Administrative history: The Registry of Business Names (RBN) was created under the Registration of Business Names Act 1916. It was originally intended as a record of enemy aliens or former aliens who were not trading under their own names, but later served as a register of persons or firms trading under a business name other than their own. Persons or bodies trading in their own names were not required to register. Under the Companies Act 1947 the register was extended to cover limited companies trading under a different business name. The main particulars registered were the business name, general nature of the business and principal place of business, as well as details of names and nationality of owners, partners etc. The Companies Act 1947 repealed the regulations regarding the disclosure of nationality and amended the regulations regarding the disclosure of former names. The register was never comprehensive. It has been estimated that only 50-60% of those required to register did so, and that many cessations and changes of ownership were never registered. Following a review of the registration of companies and business names in 1980-81, the Companies (No. 2) Act 1981 repealed the act of 1916 and the relevant sections of the Companies Act 1947. The registry was then closed on 26 February 1982. This series consists of registration documents of businesses that originally registered in the sample years of 1917, 1921, 1931, 1941, 1951, 1961, 1971, 1981 and 1982. Arrangement: PLEASE NOTE: There are gaps in the numerical sequence of the Samples
Entries of general Home Office out-letters relating to Scotland, mostly indexed, including letters to the Lord Advocate, the General Board of Directors of Prisons in Scotland and the Board of Supervision of Poor Relief in Scotland. There is a gap in the series from 1872 to 1884 inclusive. Administrative history: After 1782 the Home Secretary customarily exercised responsibility for Scottish affairs, though much of the detailed administration was delegated to the Lord Advocate. In 1885 a Secretary for Scotland was appointed to carry out functions of the Home Secretary in Scotland where they were readily separable. Functions excepted from this transfer related principally to naturalisation, extradition, and the inspection and regulation of factories, mines, explosives, vivisection and reformatory schools. Further powers were transferred later, including the licensing and inspection of anatomy schools in 1887 and the regulation of reformatory and industrial schools in 1908, though the appointment of inspectors of reformatory and industrial schools was reserved to the Home Office until 1920. The Scottish Office had a small office in London as well as its main office in Edinburgh and from 1926 it was headed by a Secretary of State for Scotland, charged with responsibilities over a wider field than that covered by the Home Secretary in England and Wales. Functions relating to health sections of the Factory Acts were transferred to the Scottish Board of Health, working under the Secretary for Scotland, in 1921, and in 1949 responsibility for the administration of civil defence in Scotland was transferred from the Home Office to the Scottish Office.
This series consists of files relating to the drafting and administration of the National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Act 1946 and supporting regulations with particular reference to industrial diseases. It includes papers relating to committees set up to report on aspects of the legislation. There are also files of the Industrial Injuries Advisory Council Industrial Diseases Sub-Committee and of the National Joint Pneumoconiosis Committee. An original list of prescribed diseases appears in the First Schedule to the 1948 Regulations as piece No. 27. Administrative history: The National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Act 1946 provided insurance cover for persons working for an employer under a contract of service against personal injury caused by accidents arising out of and in the course of insurable employment and against certain prescribed diseases due to the nature of the person's employment. The Act, which superseded the Workmen's Compensation Acts 1925-1945 under which Acts liability for the payment of compensation rested upon the employer, introduced a new approach in as much as the payment of monetary benefit was to be based on a medically assessed loss of faculty resulting from the industrial accident or disease and not upon a comparative loss of earnings which was the basis of assessment of compensation under the superseded Acts. The list of prescribed diseases for which benefit was payable under the Act reproduced substantially the diseases for which compensation was available under the Workmen's Compensation Acts but action was taken to revise and extend the area covered. The Act also introduced a new range of insurance benefits paid directly to the employee by the Ministry of National Insurance as part of an integrated social insurance system distinct from any employer's liability. The Industrial Injuries Fund was established under the Act to finance the new scheme, contributions to which were made by employers, employed persons and the Exchequer.
Files in this series cover milk production, consumption, trade and prices, CAP, milk quota arrangements, EC milk regime, EC Milk Management Committee and International and Domestic trade issues relating to milk and milk products. Files selected for preservation cover negotiations on New Zealand butter, post 1983 access negotiations, investigations by HMCE and ECA into New Zealand imports, Milk Task Force, quinquennial review (QQR) of Milk Development Council (MDC) and MDC Levy. Administrative history: The Milk and Milk Products Division was formed on the amalgamation in 1955 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Ministry of Food taking over from the latter responsibility for policy on milk production, supply and consumption, the milk trade and prices, hygiene and quality control in dairies, the administration of the Milk and Dairies Regulations in wholesale and retail premises and the operation of the milk guarantee through the Milk Marketing Board. The introduction of European Community milk quotas in 1984 resulted in a reorganisation of the Division's responsibilities and the formation of three separate Milk and Milk Products Divisions. Division I dealt with milk production, consumption, trade and prices and the CAP. Division II handled domestic milk policy, the Milk Marketing Scheme, health and hygiene matters for milk and milk products and the Importation of Milk Regulations. Division II was formed to oversee the introduction of milk production quotas in the United Kingdom, including the Milk Quota Supplementary Levy, the outgoers scheme and the Dairy Produce Quotas Tribunal, and in 1985 its functions were absorbed into Division I, Division III being abolished. In 1989-90 Division I was renamed the Milk (European Community) Division and Division II was renamed the Milk Marketing Division, though functions remained basically unchanged. In 1990 the two divisions were merged to form the Milk and Milk Products Division, which became the Milk, Pig, Eggs and Poultry Division in 1996.
General files of the Education Department and Board of Education concerning the administration of the Education Acts embracing educational matters common to, or not peculiar to, elementary or secondary education. Files preceding the current (1954) series (in which the subject headings are keyed to a registration of consecutive numbers, i.e. G. 401 onwards) were known as the 'Unnumbered' series. A number of the files contain indexes. The 'Numbered' (current) series commenced in 1921 and absorbed papers of an earlier period wherever a comparable subject appeared under the provisions of the 1921 Act. They contain, inter alia, papers defining the internal arrangements of the board's administration; the board's relation to, and co-operation with, local government; drafting of schemes relating to educational charities and of various regulations and other parliamentary documents; the board's spheres of function regarding educational matters also within the purview of other government departments; financial matters; the formation and growth of certain educational and semi-educational bodies; and the effect of non-educational legislation upon the work of the board. The files also record the effect of the second world war upon educational buildings (air raid precautions, requisition of premises, structural damage); upon personnel (evacuation, national service of teachers and other local education authority staff, refugees); upon supplies (clothes rationing, allocation of equipment, control of building labour and materials); and upon legislation ( Defence (General) Regulations and other emergency provisions). They also contain a history of education in wartime, including that of cultural organisations such as the Council for the Encouragement of Music and the Arts, and proposals for postwar reconstruction of the education system. Arrangement: Both the unnumbered and numbered series are arranged by alphabetical subject titles
Registered files of the Ministry of Education Teachers Branch concerning the introduction of Area Training Organisations in accordance with the recommendations of the McNair Report of 1944. Administrative history: The McNair Committee on the supply, recruitment and training of teachers and youth leaders was appointed in March 1942 and reported in May 1944. The recommendations included the formation of Area Training Organisations (ATOs) to develop a closer relationship between the universities and the teacher training colleges. Two schemes, known subsequently as scheme A and scheme B, were outlined in paragraphs 163-196 of the report. Scheme A involved 'a major constitutional change' in the organisation of teacher training with the proposed introduction of University Schools (Institutes) of Education. These were 'an organic federation of approved training institutes working in co-operation with other approved educational institutes' which were responsible for 'the training and assessment of the work of all students seeking to be recognised by the Board of Education as qualified teachers.' The ministry decided that the cost of scheme A organisation would fall to the responsible university, to be included in its grant from the University Grants Committee. Scheme B involved the reconstitution of the existing Joint Examination Boards (who were responsible for the award of qualifying certificates) with finance met by the ministry, but was superseded by scheme C, which was formulated by a special sub-committee of the committee of Vice Chancellors and Principals in November 1944. Scheme C institutes were independent of their university and were financed by a 100% grant from the ministry under Regulation No 20 of G R 7 - Teachers Training Regulations. In the event, the universities of Birmingham, Bristol, Durham, Exeter, Nottingham, Hull, Leicester, London, Manchester, Southampton, Wales, Sheffield, Leeds and Oxford opted for scheme A, while Cambridge, Reading and Liverpool adopted scheme C. Arrangement: In alphabetical order of institutes taking part in the schemes.
The North Sea Geographical Information System (GIS) datasets were created by the Oil and Gas Directorate of the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), providing the geophysical and licensing analysis of the United Kingdom's Oil and Gas exploration. The datasets contain spatial data locating oil and gas field boundaries and pipelines and are used regularly by such entities as the British Geological Survey, Schlumberger Geoquest and Asset Geoscience Ltd. Other users include oil companies, central and local government, data supply companies and other national governments. The series contains six datasets: one covering 1992-2000 and five annual snapshots from 2002. The datasets in this series are available to download. Links to individual datasets can be found at piece level. Administrative history: Petroleum has been produced in small quantities on the UK mainland for centuries. The first commercial find of petroleum was in 1918 in Nottinghamshire. Wytch Farm in Dorset, the first major onshore oil field in the UK was discovered in 1973 and is now the largest onshore oil field in Western Europe. The first significant discovery of offshore gas, in the West Sole Field, was made in 1965. Development of the North Sea fields began in the mid-1960s. By the beginning of 2000, there were 109 oil fields, 87 gas fields and 16 condensate fields in production offshore. By the start of 2000, a total of some 2,445 million tonnes of oil and 1410 billion cubic metres (bcm) of gas had been produced from UK fields. Despite the maturity of the United Kingdom and its Continental Shelf as a petroleum province, there was still potential for further activity in both mature and frontier areas. The Government was keen to maximise the economic level of exploration and development so that additional oil and gas reserves could be proved and developed to replace those that were being depleted. The 'Brown Book', the Department of Trade and Industry's annual report on the development of oil and gas resources, provides estimates of the discovered recoverable reserves, potential additional reserves and undiscovered recoverable reserves for both oil and gas. Legislative framework for Licences: The Petroleum Act 1998, which consolidated a number of provisions previously contained in five separate pieces of primary legislation (including the Petroleum (Production) Act 1934), vests ownership of oil and gas within Great Britain and its territorial sea in the Crown and gives the Government rights to grant licences to explore for, and exploit, these resources, and those on the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS). The designated area of the UKCS has been refined over the years by a series of designations under the Continental Shelf Act 1964, following the conclusion of boundary agreements with neighbouring states, the most recent being the agreement reached with the Faroe Islands in May 1999. Regulations re-enacted under the 1998 Act set out how applications for licences may be made and specify the Model Clauses to be incorporated into the licences. The regulations currently in force are the Petroleum (Production) (Seaward Areas) Regulations 1988 as amended by the Petroleum (Production) (Seaward Areas) Amendment Regulations 1990, 1992, 1995 and 1996 for offshore licences; and the Petroleum (Production) (Landward Areas) Regulations 1995 for onshore licences. All applications for production licences are assessed against the same criteria. Decisions about licence awards take account of the applicant's financial, technical and environmental capabilities as well as the geological rationale for the application, and the proposed work programme that will be carried out in the event of a licence being granted. Licence Types: The terms of licences vary according to whether they cover Seaward or Landward areas. The terms, duration and relinquishment requirements, as set out in the licensing regulations, vary between Licensing Rounds and are dependent on the amount of exploration and development that has already taken place in the area of the acreage on offer. Whilst applications for Landward and Seaward Licences are assessed on the basis of the same criteria, the respective licensing rounds are held separately. Arrangement: Operating System: Windows NT. 2004 onwards: Windows XP Application Software: Software used included ESRI Arcinfo and XGEO (a seismic database and mapping system capable of handling the high volumes of geological and geophysical data required for exploration mapping and field development studies). By 2004, the Department were using ESRI Arcinfo v 7.1. ESRI ArcMap v 8.3 was also being used to process the data by this time. By the time of the 2006 dataset, the Department were using ESRI ArcGIS v 9.0. Logical structure and schema: The datasets have been populated by direct entry to ArcInfo through forms or digitising. They are edited and saved as ArcInfo coverages. ArcView uses these coverages for map display and cartographic output or to create a shapefile. The exception to this occurs when oilfield (spatial) data is imported from the XGEO system as an ASCII file. ArcInfo builds this.dat file into a coverage ready for editing. Dynamic or closed: Most of the geophysical data is overwritten unless it pertains to a legal document (i.e. where a boundary is drawn around a field shape to calculate tax). Data on the licensing system is not overwritten. Licence data is continually changing as companies buy/sell/share areas in the North Sea. The most recent position is displayed on the GIS system and on the licensing database, but all previous transactions (both spatial and text files) are kept on the system. How data was originally captured and validated: Data was input via on-screen forms, transfers from other computer systems, and via digitisers. Validation performed after transfer: Details of the content and transformation validation checks performed by NDAD staff on each dataset are contained in the catalogues of individual datasets.
Papers selected to illustrate the organization and work on postal and telegraph censorship during the Second World War by the Directorate of Military Intelligence at the War Office and by the Postal and Telegraph Censorship Department. The series also contains papers relating to censorship during the First World War and to the compilation of the official history of the Postal and Telegraph Censorship Department. Administrative history: The crown has the right under the prerogative to censor postal packets within its own territories and this was given legislative expression in the Post Office Act 1908. Such mails could be required to be submitted to censors under warrants issued by a secretary of state under the prerogative power (in Great Britain and the Channel Islands the home secretary). The censorship of telephone calls was exercisable by virtue of telephone regulations made by the Post Master General under the Telegraph Act 1885. The censorship of General Post Office operated radio services was exercisable under prerogative powers, and of commercially operated radio under provisions of the Telegraph acts and by the use of supporting clauses in the the landing licences granted by the Post Master General. When appropriate the exercise of these powers was also by means of secretary of state warrant. Under the Wireless Telegraph (Foreign Ships) Regulations 1908 the Admiralty was empowered to issue rules regulating the use of wireless in British territorial waters. The principles and procedure governing the censorship of naval, military and air force mails were contained in manuals issued by the respective departments. On the outbreak of war in September 1939 responsibility for postal and telegraph censorship was placed on the Army Council operating through the director of military intelligence. In April 1940 responsibility for the postal and cable censorship sections was transferred to the Ministry of Information, though they remained distinct elements within the ministry's organisation. On 6 April 1943, on Treasury authority, the Postal and Telegraph Censorship Department was established as a separate department with its own director general, though the Minister of Information remained responsible to Parliament for its work. The department undertook all measures in connection with the imposition of postal and telecommunications censorship in the United Kingdom, together with the censorship of documents carried by travellers departing from and arriving in the country. It was also responsible for the co-ordination, through its overseas staff, of censorship measures in the field throughout the Empire and other areas of British interest and in association with Allied postal and telegraph censorship organisation. The broad framework of the department consisted of a central secretariat and other branches serving the whole department; Postal and Telegraph Censorship Branches, each maintaining units in London and other large centres in the United Kingdom; a Regional Organisation in the civil defence regional headquarters throughout Great Britain; and Overseas Organisation consisting of controllers or liaison officers in foreign, dominion and colonial centres; and a number of small specialised sections. On 30 September 1945 all censorship operations in the United Kingdom ceased, except those in respect of correspondence of enemy prisoners of war. The department was wound up and those residual functions transferred to the charge of the Home Office on 1 April 1946. A Planning Section was established on 7 May 1946, the responsibility for the work of which was transferred to the Ministry of Defence on 26 May 1959.
Conference documents and related papers transferred to the Home Office by the General Post Office and the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications reflecting Britain's involvement in the field of international telecommunications, and especially in the International Telecommunication Union and its predecessors. The references to the numbered documents in various pieces relate to covering ranges and not all the intervening papers are necessarily preserved. Administrative history: This series consists of conference documents and related papers inherited by the Home Office from the Post Office and the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, reflecting Britain's involvement in the field of international communications generally and particularly the International Telecommunication Union and its predecessors. The International Telecommunication Union, the oldest of the intergovernmental organisations which have become specialised agencies in relation with the United Nations, originated in 1865, when the International Telegraph Union was founded in Paris with the signing of the first International Telegraph Convention. This Convention was revised by Plenipotentiary Conferences in Vienna 1868, Rome 1872, and St Petersburg 1875. At Vienna it was decided to create a permanent international bureau, the forerunner of the present General Secretariat of the ITU. The St Petersburg Convention remained unchanged until 1932, the annexed regulations alone being revised at a series of administrative conferences, two of which, 1879 and 1903, were held in London. In 1932 two plenipotentiary conferences were held in Madrid and the conventions of the Telegraph and Telephone Conference and the Radiotelegraphic Conference were amalgamated in a single International Telecommunication Convention, the signatories forming the International Telecommunication Union. Four sets of regulations were attached to the Convention (telegraph, telephone, radio and additional radio regulations) and were revised by successive Administrative Conferences. In 1947 a Plenipotentiary Conference met in Atlantic City, New Jersey, to revise the Madrid Convention and introduced radical changes in the structure of the organisation. The supreme organ of the Union is the Plenipotentiary Conference which alone can revise the Convention and which elects the Administrative Council to co-ordinate Union activities internally and in relation to the United Nations and other international organisations, and to supervise the management and finances of the Union: the Conference meets every five to six years, the Council annually, functioning only when in session. The General Secretariat is the organ of liaison between telecommunication Administrations throughout the world: the Secretary-General is responsible to the Plenipotentiary Conference and between its sessions to the Administrative Council for all the administrative and financial services of the Union. The International Frequency Registration Board (IRFB) was first created in 1947, being made up of eleven independent members, all nationals of different countries, elected by the ordinary administrative radio conference to act as 'impartial custodians of an international public trust' in ensuring the most effective use of the radio spectrum by the allocation, registration and monitoring of radio frequencies. The International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee (CCITT) formed in 1947 replaced the International Telegraph Consultative Committee (CCIT) and the International Telephone Consultative Committee (CCIF) created in 1925 and 1924 respectively. It studies and issues recommendations on the technical, operating and tariff questions connected with telegraphy and telephony. The International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR) carries out the same duties in relation to radio. These two consultative committees have as members the Administrations of all members or associate members of the Union as well as recognised private operating agencies. They work largely through study groups which are set up by and report to plenary assemblies which normally meet every three years. The official languages of the Union are now English, French, Spanish, Russian and Chinese, the first three being the working languages and the French text authoritative in the event of dispute. Before 1947 the only official language was French and the majority of the records in this series are therefore wholly or partly in French, although in many cases English titles have been used in this list.
This series contains files of the Railway Inspectorate concerning safety provisions for railways. The files cover various aspects of railway safety, such as track inspection, accident investigation, staff health and safety, and operating system inspection. Most files relate to train accidents and new works. Many files concern safety modifications to level crossings. Files are usually listed in groups under headings of the main railway regions (Southern, Western, Eastern, North Eastern, Scottish, London Midland, and London Transport). There are also files concerning the triple collision at Harrow in 1952 and the Hixon level crossing accident of 1968. Arrangement: The Railway Inspectorate administers safety provisions for railways. These fall into four distinct responsibilities: track inspection, accident investigation, staff health and safety, and operating system inspection. The Railway Regulation Act of 1840 gave the President of the Board of Trade powers to appoint an inspector general and two inspecting officers of railways. They reported on the construction and equipment of new railways and were empowered to postpone the opening of a railway until it satisfied their requirements. The Regulation of Railways Act of 1871 provided the inspectors with the statutory power to investigate accidents and hold public inquiries, which are still held under this authority. Inquiries into accidents involving railway staff were held by the inspectors as early as 1858, but legislation was not brought in until the Railway Employment (Prevention of Accidents) Act of 1900, which authorised the Board of Trade to appoint assistant inspecting officers (now called Railway Employment Inspectors) to investigate the more serious accidents to employees. The Health and Safety at Work Act, 1974 increased this aspect of the Inspectorate's work greatly, when it became an agency of the Health and Safety Commission, responsible for enforcing safety legislation on railway premises. The other main function of the Railway Inspectorate is the inspection of new operating systems, especially with the introduction of electrification and schemes for automation. Under the Road and Rail Traffic Act of 1933, which codified the existing statutory functions, the secretary of state for Transport could order an inspection before granting his approval of new works. In addition, the Inspectorate is employed by the Department of Transport to provide expert advice on all railway matters.
The Government War Book was assembled in three parts reflecting pre-Precautionary Stage matters, the Precautionary Stage, and War. The War Book specifies the actions to be taken by ministers and officials in each of these periods. These might be: immediate and vital security measures which require decision at the earliest possible moment when there is a threat of war; institution of the Precautionary Stage and the principal measures which would automatically be brought into operation during the course of that Stage; measures which require separate Cabinet decisions during the Precautionary Stage; and measures required with the onset of war. It had been laid down by the Cabinet Defence (Transition) Committee that in addition to the Government War Book each Department of State should maintain a departmental war book. The series includes some records of Exercise Felstead: a simulation by officials of the Cabinet and the Defence (Transition) Committee discussions during a crisis. The official group was designated GEN 772, and additional records are at CAB 134/187. A key planning assumption around which the War Book was prepared was that at the outset of a fresh war emergency a new Emergency Powers (Defence) Bill would be presented to Parliament. The bill would provide for the introduction of sets of defence regulations within each of the principal departments' areas of competence. The war books have been subject to a virtually continuous process of revision and amendment. Administrative history: In the unprecedented international situation existing following the end of the second world war, the Cabinet instituted the preparation of the War Book. The Emergency Powers (Defence) Act, 1939 under which the defence regulations in force during the second world war were made expired in 1946. A draft of a new Emergency Powers (Defence) Bill was prepared and approved by the Emergency Legislation Committee in 1948 and was kept under review by the War Legislation Sub-Committee of the Defence (Transition) Committee. It was envisaged that new emergency powers legislation would apply to the whole of the UK and that provision would be made for its extension by Order in Council to the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, Colonies, Protectorates, protected states and trust territories.
Policy, general and record files of the Export Licensing Department of the Board of Trade. The files relate to specific commodities, export licenses and controls. A number of files have been re-registered from the ELD series. Administrative history: Prior to the creation of the Export Licensing Department in 1939, a Licensing Section already existed within the Commercial Relations and Treaties Department of the Board of Trade, dealing with the import and export of certain goods. The powers of the new department, which also formed part of the Commercial Relations and Treaties Department, derived from the Import, Export and Customs Powers (Defence) Act 1939 and Regulation 55 of the Defence (General) Regulations 1939. The purpose of licensing was to control United Kingdom exports, in order to conserve essential materials and deny them to enemy states. Controls could also be used to direct exports, in order to secure foreign exchange or goodwill. The work of the Export Licensing Department was divided mainly among 'goods' sections, corresponding to the group headings in the export control list. In some cases, for example diamonds and proprietary articles, advisory committees including representatives of government departments and the trade were set up to help in the administration of the control. Close contact was maintained with other departments, for instance with the Ministries of Supply, Food and Agriculture, Economic Warfare, and War Transport and with the Customs. After the war, but by 1947, the Department became known as the Export Licensing Branch. When the Department of Overseas Trade had been abolished in 1946, a new Export Promotion Department had been set up within the Board of Trade to discharge its functions. In January 1949 this department was merged with the Commercial Relations and Treaties Department to form the Commercial Relations and Exports Department, subsequently Division. The Export Licensing Branch continued to function within this combined department, licensing the export of military goods, strategic materials, scientific equipment, live animals and works of art. Arrangement: Former reference order
Records of the Cotton Control Board including ledgers of receipts and payments, census returns and summaries of returns, minutes of sub-committee regulations, circulars, and miscellaneous books and papers, and lists and an alphabetical index of firms. Administrative history: The Cotton Control Board, Manchester, was established on 28 June 1917 to administer the orders that the Board of Trade made under the Defence of the Realm Regulations for the control of the cotton industry. In 1919 these controls were ended, but the board continued in existence as the Cotton Reconstruction Board to advise the government on questions of reconstruction. To assist its working, the board took 8 censuses of the industry, the records of which form the bulk of this series. Censuses 1-3 and 5-8 called for returns from every cotton firm of the number of bales of various cottons in stock on the census date, and the number consumed during the previous six months and in the previous week. They also called for the numbers of looms and spindles running, and for the quantities of yarn in stock, and used in the previous week. Censuses 1 to 3 were held on 30 June 1917, 27 October 1917 and 2 February 1918, and 5 to 8 on 27 April 1918, 27 July 1918, 12 October 1918 and 11 January 1919. Census 4, held on 9 February 1918 enquired into the stocks of various flours, starches, fats and oils, and called for estimates of consumption over the next six months. A census subsidiary to No. 2, but held on the same day, called for numbers of bales of various cottons in stock, and received, consumed, resold or returned during the previous four months. For all the censuses except 4 there are statistical summaries. For 4, 7 and 8 the original returns survive. For the others there are entered up cards for each firm. Arrangement: Lists of firms, with their identifying numbers are preserved in numerical and alphabetical order, together with ledgers of each firm's financial dealings with the Board, in two series, the first running from 1 September 1917 to 23 February 1918, and the second from 25 February to 1 June 1918.
Local Education Authority files concerning the provision of practical instruction in a wide range of subjects in England, Wales and the Isle of Man. The files include material regarding the establishment of centres, arrangements for instruction, lists and returns of premises used for practical instruction purposes, HM Inspectors' general reports and annual returns of premises and changes in premises used for practical instruction purposes. Administrative history: Section 18 of the Elementary Education Act, 1870, (and subsequently Section 3 of the Education Act, 1902) conferred on School Boards and Local Education Authorities the power to make provision for practical instruction in elementary schools. Instruction in domestic subjects e.g. domestic economy and cookery, preceded practical instruction in a wide range of subjects and payment of grant was authorised under the Code of Regulations for Elementary Schools, 1875. The Code of Regulations of 1906 introduced new provisions for the teaching of domestic subjects in elementary schools; rules for the instruction of 'Special Subjects' were revised and grant awarded in respect of each course of instruction in place of the system of 'per capita' grants. Syllabuses had to be submitted to the Board of Education before a course commenced and additional women H.M. Inspectors were appointed to ensure systematic inspection of practical instruction centres. Under Section 2 of the Education Act, 1918 (re-enacted as Section 20 of the Education Act, 1921) it became a duty for Local Education Authorities to make provision for practical instruction in elementary schools and in the years following the publication of 'The Hadow Report on the Education of the Adolescent' it was a general principle that the provision of practical instruction should as far as possible, be an integral part of a senior school with the head teacher in control of the practical instruction staff. Part III Authorities are Boroughs with a population of over 10,000 and Urban District Councils with a population of over 20,000 defined in Section I of the Education Act 1902 as a local authority for the purpose of Part III of the Act. Arrangement: By counties including Part III Authorities and county borough order for England and Wales followed by the Isle of Man.
This series contains registered files of the London Geographical Planning Division and its successors, the Greater London Planning Division and the London Regional Planning Division, relating to all aspects of planning in London. The subjects covered in the files include planning policy, planning regulations and the London development plan. Many files relate to specific schemes, and deal with the development of and improvements to such London landmarks as Piccadilly Circus and Trafalgar Square; the use of selected properties as embassies or high commissions by foreign and commonwealth governments; and the granting of planning permission for specific schemes. It will be found that some files contain both maps and correspondence. The series includes earlier files which were re-registered into the LGP series from the P1 series ( HLG 131 ) of the Ministry of Housing and Local Government's Planning Division. Administrative history: The London Government Act was passed in 1963, and its provisions were dealt with first by the Ministry of Housing and Local Government's Planning Division A (1963-1968) and then by Planning Division 1 (1968-1971). The new division dealt in the main with the various Planning Acts such as the London Government Act, 1963 and the Town and Country Planning Acts, as they applied to London. In 1971 the London Directorate was created as part of the newly formed Department of the Environment. One of its divisions was the London Geographical Planning Division. Other divisions included the London Highways Division and the London Transportation Planning Division. The main role of the London Geographical Planning Division was to deal with planning policy and regulations for London. The division was particularly concerned with Planning Acts and the London Government Act 1963, but was also responsible for other planning affairs such as improvements to London landmarks, granting of planning permission and use of selected properties as embassies, or high commissions, by foreign and commonwealth governments. In 1976 the London Geographical Planning Division was replaced by the Greater London Planning Division. With the abolition of the Greater London Council (GLC) in 1985/6, the division was renamed as the London Regional Planning (LRP) Division and the change of acronym was reflected in the file prefix.
Registered files of the Ministry of Education and Department of Education and Science, Further Education Branch containing policy decisions leading to the establishment of National colleges and records of their development and progress. Administrative history: Before the second world war the development of technical education had been largely left to local initiative which often paid little regard to the provision made by universities and neighbouring local authorities. Both educationists and industrialists realised that fundamental changes were required in the training of higher technologists. A special committee chaired by Lord Eustace Percy was appointed in April 1944 to advise the minister on the needs of higher technological education with regard to the requirements of industry, and the maintenance of appropriate collaboration between universities and technical colleges. The committee presented its report in July 1945. One of its recommendations was that selected colleges should conduct, as part of their activities, national schools in particular branches of technological study and receive special financial assistance for performing a national, rather than a local function. In April 1946 the minister accepted this recommendation. Circular 98 emphasised the need to develop, on a national basis, courses for industries or professions. It was suggested that these courses might conveniently be developed within existing colleges by the industries concerned. Evidence of such recognition would be provided by the willingness of the industry to support the school, to assist in its direction, to release employees for full time study at it and to accept its students for employment after their training. Each school was to have a separate and autonomous governing body appointed by the minister who would recognise the governors as a responsible body for the purposes of grant under the Further Education Grant Regulations. This governing body was to include national representatives of the industry together with representatives of the local education authority and other interests concerned. These decisions led to the setting up of the national colleges and in July 1946 the regulations were amended to enable the minister to pay grant at the rate of 100% of the approved net cost of establishing and maintaining them. Arrangement: In numerical order under their county or county borough. In addition a few files under the heading 'Proposed Institutions' contain papers where attempts to establish national colleges failed to materialize. Note: Files in the 8270 cut of the T files series
This series contains agendas, minutes and circulated papers (styled memoranda) of the Social Security Advisory Committee. The records relate to its function of advising on social security policy issues, including family income supplement, child benefit and housing benefit, and other matters (including social security regulations). Memoranda numbers 65/82, 11/83, 64/87, 50/88, 77/90 and 79/90 were not issued because the Department of Social Security did not implement the proposed policy initiatives. Memoranda numbers 80/83, 38/84, 84/84, 23/85, 52/85, 58/85, 59/85, 60/85, 62/85, 40/86 and 5/88 were reserved, but not used. Administrative history: The Social Security Advisory Committee (SSAC) was created in November 1980 following the Social Security Act 1980. Its functions combined those of the Supplementary Benefits Commission and the National Insurance Advisory Committee; the SSAC also assumed responsibility for advisory functions concerning family income supplement and child benefits, which had not previously come within the scope of any advisory committee. The SSAC's responsibilities were further extended by the Social Security and Housing Benefits Act 1992 to include advising on the housing benefit scheme introduced by that act. SSAC replaced the Advisory Committee on Rent Rebates and Rent Allowances on its abolition in April 1983. The SSAC is responsible for advising on social security policy issues, and for considering and reporting on social security regulations and related matters referred to it by the Secretary of State for Social Services or the Northern Ireland Department of Health and Social Services. Its remit does not include benefits in reparation for industrial injuries, war pensions or occupational pensions (all of which fall under the aegis of other advisory bodies). Similarly, it does not advise on matters which, though they may interrelate with social security benefit, are not the responsibility of the Department of Social Security. The committee comprises a chairman and thirteen other members. One member has to be elected as a representative of employers' interests and another as representative of employees' interests; a third member must be selected in consultation with the Northern Ireland Department of Health and Social Services. The committee is also required to have at least one member who should have experience of work amongst (and the needs of), chronically ill or disabled people. Arrangement: Chronological
Court rolls of manors, hundreds and other local jurisdictions, and related manorial documents such as estreats, copies of court rolls, and a few ministers' accounts, of the Duchy of Lancaster. The bulk of the contents of the series are court rolls, the records of the courts held, with the principal courts being the court baron. These contain information relating to the conveyancing of land, settlement of disputes, regulation of the assizes of bread and ale, and election of officials. They are potentially a valuable source for confirming or expanding information found in parish registers, which, in some cases, they predate. Administrative history: By the fourteenth century, court rolls generally were becoming increasingly formalised in structure and extensive in length. The lord's steward presided over the court, while a clerk recorded the proceedigns (in Latin until 1733, except for the Interregnum), often entering successive courts on one continuous roll. Sometimes, especially in the seventeeth century, a draft made at the same time and a fair copy written up later. The business of the court included questions of land tenure, customary payments, settlements of disputes and minor woundings, regulation of the assizes of bread and ale and election of officials. By the sixteenth century, these courts had begun to decline with the increasing use of hired labour and subsequent use of hired labour and subsequent changes in estate management. In the nineteenth century, much copyhold material was converted to freehold, although the administration of copyhold material was converted to freehold, although the administration of copyhold land tenure by manorial courts, continued until copyhold tenure was finally abolished by the Law Of Property Act 1922. Following this Act, copies of the court roll (being the necessary evidences for conveyances of copyhold tenureland) were placed with all other manorial records under the charge of the Master of the Rolls, by the Law of property (Amendment) Act 1924, which also made provision for rules to be drawn up concerning their control and custody. Arrangement: This series shares with series SC 2 one single sequence of piece numbers. This arrangement arose in 1896, when the list of court rolls of the Duchy was amalgamated with the list of court rolls in one of the artificial series of Special Collections formed in the nineteenth century, (SC 2). The two series are therefore numbered as in the following example; DL 30/1-152, SC 2/153-227, DL 30/228-251.
Board of Education, University Branch, and Ministry of Education, Teachers Branch, teachers' training and supply files concerned with the approval of arrangements made by Local Education Authorities, including the Isle of Man, for the preliminary education and training of intending teachers with reports on training and supply provisions. The files contain material connected with the continued recognition of Pupil Teacher Centres and with the special problems of pupil teachers in rural areas. Papers earlier than 1924 have not survived except for some staff returns of teachers and teachers under training in public elementary schools in Wales for the period 1912 to 1915. The series includes some earlier papers which have survived for the period 1912-1915; these are staff returns of teachers and teachers under training in Public Elementary Schools in Wales. Administrative history: The Board of Education's policy in respect of the pupil and student teacher systems was reviewed by the Departmental Committee on the Training of Teachers, 1925 and revised Regulations for the Training of Teachers were introduced in the following year. The regulations recognised for grant purposes the work in connection with the training of teachers conducted by Local Authorities for higher education and called for the continuous full-time education in secondary schools of students up to the age of eighteen, prior to admission to training colleges. The board were prepared, however, in accordance with the circumstances set out in their Circular 1377 (June 4, 1926) to recognise the temporary continuance of arrangements made by Local Education Authorities for the preliminary education and training of intending teachers under such conditions as were approved in the past. The number of authorities seeking temporary continuance of these arrangements gradually diminished and although prolonged by the circumstances of the 1939-1945 war, reference to the Board ceased in 1949. Candidates for recognition as student teachers had received continuous education up to the age of seventeen at a secondary school and qualified by examination for admission to a training college, whilst pupil teachers continued their education after the age of sixteen at a Pupil Teacher Centre. The provision of suitable instruction for pupil teachers in rural areas offered special problems which were met, in part, by instruction and supervision by the headmaster of the elementary school in the particular area. Arrangement: In county and county borough order in England and Wales
This series consists of selection of files and papers dealing with traffic and safety problems including the control of motor vehicles, the Highway Code, driving licences, third party insurance, penalties for driving offences, speed limits, street playgrounds and road signs and signals. The series includes bill papers on general traffic and London traffic legislation. This series also contains some files from the RS series (otherwise in MT 92). Administrative history: From 1919, the enormous growth of motor traffic made it essential for the social and industrial welfare of the country, for governments to take an increasing interest in the adequacy of our roads, and many developments in highway administration have taken place. The Roads Act, 1920 provided for the registration and licensing of mechanically propelled vehicles. The London Traffic Act, 1924 and the London Passenger Transport Act, 1933 gave the Minister specially wide powers to control the movement of traffic in London. The Act of 1924 set up the London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee. The Royal Commission on Transport issued in 1929 a report entitled 'The Control of Traffic on Roads' which was adopted almost in its entirety and as a result the Road Traffic Act 1930 was enacted which among other provisions gave the Minister power to make Regulations about the construction and use of mechanically propelled vehicles and provided for the installation of traffic signs and signals by highway authorities subject to the approval of the Minister. The Act also provided for the Highway Code, driving licences, third party insurance, penalties, offences for dangerous driving and other driving offences. In addition, as amended by the Road and Rail Traffic Act 1933, the act empowered local authorities to make Orders, subject to confirmation by the Minister, restricting and regulating the use of vehicles on specified roads. The Road Traffic Act, 1934 imposed the general speed limit of 30 m.p.h. in built-up areas and made driving tests compulsory. It also provided for pedestrian crossing schemes to be submitted to the Minister by local authorities. Under the Trunk Roads Act 1936, as amended by the Trunk Roads Act 1946, the Minister became the Order-making authority in respect of trunk roads. The Street Playgrounds Act 1938 empowered certain councils to make Orders, subject to confirmation of the Minister, prohibiting or restricting traffic in specified streets so that they may be used as playgrounds.
Discussion papers, bill papers, parliamentary drafts and records of debates on the postwar nationalisation of iron and steel and on the Iron and Steel Bill Act 1949, originating from the Ministry of Supply. The series also includes a history of the nationalisation and denationalisation of the industry, and personal notes by S S Wilson, who was responsible for the bill in that Ministry. Wilson was Under Secretary in the Establishment and Organisation Division of the Ministry of Supply, 1947-1950, Secretary of the Iron and Steel Corporation of Great Britain, 1950-1953, and Secretary of the Iron and Steel Holding and Realisation Agency, 1953-1960. Includes documents relating to the Board of Trade's Liberated Areas Division, which was involved with the United Nations Relief and Rehabiliation Administration. Administrative history: On the outbreak of war in 1939 an Iron and Steel Control was established in the Ministry of Supply to regulate the supply and distribution of iron and steel. The staff were engaged on loan from the industry through firms in the British Iron and Steel Federation and from the British Iron and Steel Corporation, a body closely allied to the Federation. The control, which had been exercised under the Defence Regulations, was confirmed by the Supplies and Services (Transitional Powers) Act 1945, but was superseded by the establishment of the Iron and Steel Board in 1946. At the same time an Iron and Steel Division was set up in the Ministry to consider, inter alia, the nationalisation programme. When the Iron and Steel Board was abolished in 1949 its staff reverted to the Ministry as its Iron and Steel Division. The existing division of that name was renamed the Iron and Steel (General) Division. With the nationalisation of the Iron and Steel industry under the provisions of the Iron and Steel Act 1949 and the establishment of the Iron and Steel Corporation in 1950, the two Iron and Steel divisions merged into one. The industry was denationalised in 1953. In July 1955 the Ministry of Supply's responsibility for iron and steel was transferred to the Board of Trade. The industry remained denationalised until the establishment of a National Steel Corporation under the Iron and Steel Act 1967, which also revived certain provisions of the Iron and Steel Act 1949.
The XV file series relates to all aspects of the work of the GA3 Branch of the Aerodromes (General) Division; it contains files relating to measures to control aircraft noise vibration and air pollution caused by civil aircraft; Consideration of problems; possible solutions, including use of outside expert advice; attendance at conferences and meetings. Some files have been re-registered from the ER series (used by GA2 Branch). The APD prefix began in approximately 1991/1992, taking over from the XV and XQ prefixes, although some files registered into the series predate 1990 and some files in XQ relating to the management of local authority bids for supplementary credits post-date 1990. Files registered into the APD prefix from the early 1990s document the work of the Civil Aviation Policy Directorate (1990-1994) and the Civil Aviation Directorate (1995-1996) which were responsible for the development of airport policy including government responsibilities for capacity, economic regulation and the regulation of local authority airports; airports structure and investment. Administrative history: Aerodromes General Division was established in the Ministry of Aviation in 1960 and GA3(b) Branch of the Division in 1965 (prior to 1965 the Branch's functions were the responsibility of GA2 Branch). The Branch initially retained its name when responsibilty for civil aviation matters was transferred to the Board of Trade (later the Department of Trade and Industry) in the latter half of 1966, but in 1968, following a restructuring of the civil aviation side of the Department, its functions were absorbed by a new Civil Aviation Division 3. When responsibilty for aviation was transferred to the Department of Transport in 1983 these functions were exercised by Division 5 (later Division 4) of the Civil Aviation Policy Directorate. They are currently the responsibility of the Department's Aviation Environmental Division. The Branch's function was to deal with general questions on measures to control noise, vibration and air pollution caused by civil aircraft. It was responsible for certain airports in England and Wales including non-state aerodromes and heliports. Arrangement: Arranged in previous reference order within each accession.
This series comprises warrants, contracts, patents, licences, inspection reports and plans relating to theatres. Also miscellaneous papers whose contents include grants to theatres, appointments of personnel, complaints of various sorts, playbills, surveys of buildings and works, and petitions. Administrative history: The Lord Chamberlain's involvement with entertainments and theatres had its origin in his responsibility for all court entertainment. His licensing role is clearly in evidence from the Restoration, but with no statutory authority until 1737. However, there were some theatres in Westminster (Covent Garden and Drury Lane) and the provinces which operated by letters patent, not Lord Chamberlain's licence. The purpose of the act of 1737 (10 Geo II c 28) was, in fact, to control travelling actors considered to be rogues and vagabonds. Its result was to set up a system of control of both theatres and entertainments, with penalties for non-accordance. Any person acting in a play or causing a play to be performed, without either a letter patent or a licence from the Lord Chamberlain, or without having a legal settlement in the place of performance, was liable to a conviction as a vagabond. A copy of all new plays was to be lodged with the Lord Chamberlain at least fourteen days before the first performance was due. He could ban any play, or part of a play. The censorship of plays applied equally to patented theatres. In order to carry out this duty the Lord Chamberlain appointed an examiner and deputy examiner of plays (from 1738). The Lord Chamberlain's jurisdiction was to run in and around Westminster, and other places of royal residence (such as Windsor or Brighton), and it included entertainments in public houses; plays were not to be performed elsewhere, even in patented theatres. In 1788, Justices of the Peace were given some licensing powers for performances within their areas of jurisdiction (28 Geo III c 30); they had in fact done this previously, but with no legal authority. By the Theatres Regulation Act of 1843 (6 & 7 Vict c 68) all previous legislation was repealed, and licensing of theatre managers was placed with the Lord Chamberlain (in and around London, Westminster, and places of royal residence) and Justices of the Peace, if letters patent did not pertain. Public houses were again included. A fee was payable to the Lord Chamberlain and Justices of the Peace for their licences. Rules were to be made for good regulation of theatres and licences could be rescinded for inappropriate behaviour, including in a patented theatre. All new plays were to be submitted seven days before performance was due, and a fee was payable for this. The Lord Chamberlain's powers over the theatre were repealed in 1968.
Board of Education precedent files containing copies of typewritten letters and minutes extracted from files originating in the Elementary Branch relating to the provision of elementary schools and from files of the Medical Department (now Special Services Branch) relating to the duty of Local Education Authorities to provide for medical inspection and treatment of children in elementary schools. Elementary Branch Supply of Schools Precedent Covers nos 1-22 are papers dated 1931-1944 relating to the provision of maintained and voluntary schools and to the decisions taken by the Board of Education on problems arising from the application of the Education Act 1921, Necessity of Schools Act 1933, and the Education Act 1936. Medical Department Precedent Covers nos M.I. 1-101 are papers dated 1907-1912 and show the action taken by Local Education Authorities to initiate the work required under s13 of the Education (Administrative Provisions) Act 1907. They also relate to the advice sought by Local Education Authorities and 'other bodies' on the interpretation of the Act and on the Circulars of Guidance subsequently issued. Medical Department Precedent Covers nos M.1-140 are dated 1905-1921 and relate to enquiries arising from the application of Part III of the Education Act 1902, the Medical Treatment Grant Regulations, the Education (Administrative Provision) Act 1907, Circulars 576, 582 and 596 and to the Code of Regulations for the years concerned. The series includes material which would otherwise be found elsewhere in ED amongst the Records of the Medical Branch, the Special Education Branch, and predecessors. Administrative history: Each Local Education Authority had the duty of providing for the medical inspection of children attending elementary schools and the power of making arrangements to be sanctioned by the Board of Education for attending to the health and physical condition of the children in elementary schools. Medical inspection was to be carried out in conjunction with the Public Health Authorities and under the direct supervision of a Medical Officer of Health. The duties thrown upon the Board of Education consisted of advising Local Education Authorities as to the manner in which the provisions of the Act should be carried out and in supervising the work undertaken by the Local Education Authorities. Arrangement: Precedent covers Nos. 1-22 are listed in date order. Precedent covers Nos. M.I. 1-101 (some are missing) are listed in area order. Precedent covers Nos. M.1-140 (some are missing) are listed in subject order.
Board of Education and Ministry of Education files concerning practical instruction centres. They relate to the provision of courses of practical instruction in special subjects (e.g. domestic economy, cookery, handicraft, etc.) in elementary and secondary schools and centres serving a number of schools. The papers include material relating to the acquisition of land and buildings, H.M. Inspectors' reports, and applications for the Board of Education's approval of courses. These records absorbed earlier special subject file material. The series ended in the late 1950s as practical instruction facilities had been increasingly incorporated into school buildings for some years and relevant papers became part of the individual school files. Administrative history: The Code of Regulations of 1906 introduced new provisions for the teaching of domestic subjects in elementary schools; rules for the instruction of 'Special Subjects' were revised and grant awarded in respect of each course of instruction in place of a system of 'per capita' grants. Syllabuses had to be submitted to the Board of Education prior to the commencement of a course and additional women H.M. Inspectors were appointed to ensure systematic inspection of practical instruction centres. Under Section 2 of the Education Act, 1918, re-enacted as Section 20 of the Education Act, 1921, it became a duty for Local Education Authorities to make provision for practical instruction in elementary schools. The power to do so had existed for School Boards and Local Education Authorities under Section 18 of the Elementary Education Act, 1870, and subsequently under Section 3 of the Education Act, 1902. Instruction in domestic subjects preceded practical instruction in a wide range of subjects and payment of special grant was first authorised under the Code of Regulations for Elementary Schools, 1875. Practical instruction, like all other curriculum subjects, was not defined in the Education Act, 1944. Part III Authorities are Boroughs with a population of over 10,000 and Urban District Councils with a population of over 20,000 defined in Section I of the Education Act 1902 as a local authority for the purpose of Part III of the Act. Arrangement: By counties, county boroughs and Part III authorities for England and Wales.
The clerks of the Petty Bag were responsible for enrolling the admission to and surrender of offices in Chancery of solicitors and other officials of the court. The admission rolls bear the names of a wide range of officers, most, though not all, of whom were connected with the court of Chancery. Among them are the lord chancellor, the solicitor general, the lord high treasurer of England, and the master of the rolls. Also included are the admissions of clerks of the Crown, clerks of the Petty Bag, masters in Chancery, clerks of bankrupts, clerks of the patents, serjeants at law, examiners in Chancery, keepers of records at the Rolls Chapel, and the librarian of the Cottonian Library. The series also contains a commission to judges and masters in Chancery to hear Chancery causes in the absence of the commissioners of the great seal (1659), the enrolment of an order regulating the Six Clerks Office (1668), the articles of an agreement between the clerks of the Petty Bag and the clerk of the Patent Office (1676), and a record of the delivery of the great seal during the Interregnum.
Registers of dockets, summaries for official record of appointments made or recalled by letters patent, commissions, proclamations and writs. The introduction of the wafer seal in 1878, and its extension to further instruments in 1916, limited their contents. Appointments docketed consist chiefly of peers, baronets, bishops and judicial officeholders. Commissions include those of array, musters, lord lieutenancy, justices of the peace, oyer and terminer, gaol delivery, sewers, charitable uses, mortmain and special ad hoc inquiries. Military commissions are included during the Civil War, when Charles I used the great seal instead of the signet. The Civil War also gave rise to many writs of pardon and indemnity, which reappear in the Jacobite era, but pardons for non-political offences occur regularly. The election writs, summonses to the Lords, regulation of parliamentary meetings (and of convocations) and arrangements for royal assents to bills derive from the duties of the clerk of the Crown. Nearly all dockets are dated, usually no more than a few days later than that on the warrant that brought them into being. Many of the volumes have indexes. Arrangement: Mainly chronological
Most of the records comprise the standard elements of proceedings in equity. Indeed, the series was once thought to document the early growth of the equity jurisdiction of the Exchequer, and includes the earliest surviving book of decrees and orders of that court, beginning in 1555. While it does contain a few bills and depositions heard in equity in the Exchequer, most of the records are either strays from Exchequer writ and bille files, or proceedings heard in other courts. These proceedings encompass all the main courts of equity at Westminster, minor royal courts, and a few common law strays. Jurisdictions represented in addition to the Exchequer are Assizes, Augmentations, Chancery, the King's council in its various forms, including the Courts of Star Chamber (otherwise in STAC ) and Requests, and the Privy Council. Also included are the duchy of Lancaster, General Surveyors, the High Court of Admiralty, the councils of queens consort and of the Prince of Wales, wards, quarter sessions at Anglesey, and an unidentified ecclesiastical court. They also include a warrant for a new survey of the lands and goods of religious houses in Essex in 1537; secular private deeds, deposited probably as a result of the forfeiture of lands; and special commissions, arising out of the Exchequer's responsibility for revenue matters, and concerned with the apportionment of taxation on particular places, the enforcement of customs and export regulations, and with breaches of penal statutes and offences against the prerogative.
The content of the series is strongly policy based. The series contains: the development of crime prevention policy and strategy together with initiatives for specific crimes such as personal safety, car crime, fraud and crime on public transport; local crime prevention initiatives; the regulation of the private security industry; crime prevention research; the analysis and review of Police operational policy against specific crimes such as child abuse, murder and drugs; Home Office input into ministerial committees, select committees, inter departmental meetings and conferences on crime prevention and strategy. Administrative history: The Crime Directorate leads on that part of the Home Office's strategy, policy and legislation that is aimed at preventing and reducing crime. The array of issues the directorate covers incudes: anti-social behaviour, violent crime, youth crime, reducing re-offending, drugs and alcohol as enablers of crime, partnerships as inhibitors of crime and licensing of controlled drugs. Prior to the formation of the Crime Directorate, crime prevention policy sat within F3 Division of the Police Department.
This series has been formed from several file series relating to land, its tenure, improvement, management and use. The subjects dealt with include: agricultural holdings, small holdings and allotments; common lands (general policy files); copyhold enfranchisements and the extinguishment of manorial incidents; forestry; glebe lands; land improvements; rural housing; university and college estates; Orders, etc, in respect of the cultivation of land made under the Defence of the Realm (Consolidation) Regulations, 1914 and Corn Production Acts; procedures under the Kendal Corn Rent Act 1932; fen roads; land use (planning). Contains some records re-registered from the LOY file series ( MAF 139 ) on the War Agricultural Executive Committees, and some re-registered from the LS file series ( MAF 140 ), the LU file series ( MAF 141 ), the ALM file series ( MAF 142 ) and the WAC file series ( MAF 143 ), the CPB file series ( MAF 144 ), the AHB file series ( MAF 234 ), the LO/N file series ( MAF 235 ), and the LI file series ( MAF 238 ).
Minutes, papers and final report of a committee appointed by the Home Secretary in 1965 to review the law and practice relating to the issue of death certificates, the role of coroners and coroners' courts, and the disposal of dead bodies. The committee reported in 1971. Administrative history: The Committee was appointed by the Home Secretary, the Rt Hon Frank Soskice on 17 March 1965, under the chairmanship of Mr Norman Brodrick QC (as he then was) and its terms of reference were to review: (i) the law and practice relating to the issue of medical certificates of the cause of death and for the disposal of dead bodies and; (ii) the law and practice relating to Coroners and Coroners Courts, the reporting of deaths to the Coroners and related matters, and to recommend what changes are desirable. The impetus for setting up this Committee was provided by the publication of a report prepared for the Private Practice Committee of the British Medical Association by some of the members of its Forensic Medicine Sub-committee. The report entitled Deaths in the Community argued that such were the loopholes in the existing law regulating death certification and the coroners system generally, that it was possible for homicides to go undetected, a claim the Committee dismissed quite early into their investigations. The Committee published its report in November 1971, amidst considerable criticism about the amount of time it had taken over its deliberations.
Papers of the Committee on Police Conditions of Service, comprising transcripts of evidence. Administrative history: The Committee on Police Conditions of Service was appointed by the Home Secretary on 12 May 1948 under the Chairmanship of the Rt Hon Lord Oaksey 'to consider (in the light of the need for the recruitment and retention of an adequate number of suitable men and women for the police forces of England, Wales and Scotland) and to report on, pay, emoluments, allowances, pensions, promotion, methods of representation and negotiation and other conditions of service'. The report was published in two parts. The first, on pay, allowances, hours of duty and pensions, was published in April 1949 (Cmd. 7674) and the second, on promotion, methods of representation and negotiation and other conditions of service, was published in November 1949 (Cmd. 7831). The recommendations of the Committee resulted in a considerable number of changes in police conditions of service, most of which were incorporated in revised police regulations. A number of Home Office circulars were also issued recommending the adoption of practices advocated by the Committee.
This series consists of the unregistered papers and plans of the River Pollution Survey which was carried out in 1958 by the Engineering Inspectorate of the Ministry of Housing and Local Government. The survey covered rivers, non-tidal waters, estuaries and canals in England and Wales and divided them into four levels of pollution. The papers are arranged by river authority and include the report, Piece 45, which was not published. Administrative history: The Engineering Inspectorate was responsible for advising the administrative divisions on all engineering aspects of the department's work, especially in relation to water supply, sewerage, sewage and refuse disposal, burial grounds, crematoria, and coast protection. It also rendered assistance to the administrative divisions, particularly the division responsible for water and sewerage, in the drafting of new legislation and resulting regulations. Towards the end of the 1960s the inspectorate was re-named the Directorate of Engineering. The inspectors were available for informal consultation with local authorities concerning new projects and also conducted public local inquiries and heard appeals and disputes referred to the minister for decision under Public Health, Water, Local Government, Coast Protection, Highways, Rivers and other acts. Chemical inspectors, attached to the inspectorate, specialised in water quality and treatment the treatment of sewage and liquid industrial wastes, and the disposal of liquid and solid toxic wastes. A survey on river pollution was carried out by the inspectorate in 1958.
This series covers the drafting of legislation and Ministerial submissions on the Fish Health Regulations 1992 and associated amendments. Administrative history: Principal legislation to support the various Fisheries Divisions are the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries Act 1903, Sea Fisheries Act 1962, and the Sea Fish Industry Act 1970. Until 1960 the United Kingdom had a sizeable Whaling Industry, which was jointly supervised by the Department and the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries for Scotland. The Department continues to liaise with the International Whaling Commission. In 1976 there was a re-organisation of the divisional structure. Responsibility for whales passed to Division III, and by 1983 Division IV had responsibility for salmon and freshwater fisheries. The number of Divisions was reduced to three in 1985 with Division II carrying responsibility for salmon and freshwater fishing. In 1991 the number of Divisions was again expanded to four with responsibility for salmon, inland fisheries and whaling together with liaison with the National Rivers Authority (later the Environment Agency) passing to a new Salmon, Whaling and Inland Fisheries Division in the Environment Policy Department. Responsibility was transferred back to Division II in 1997. Responsibility now rests with the DEFRA Migratory and Freshwater Fisheries Programme.
This series contains the collection of accounts, vouchers, registers, regulations and other papers relating to Foreign Service Messengers which was formed by Foreign Office librarian Lewis Hertslet in his capacity first as private agent and then as superintendent of messengers. Administrative history: Lewis Hertslet was born in November 1787. He entered the civil service and on 5th February 1801 was appointed as sub-librarian at the Foreign Office. On 6th January 1810 he became librarian and Keeper of the Papers. He was one of the two secretaries of the Lord Justices in England, while George IV was absent in Hanover in 1821. He married Hannah Harriet Cooke, daughter of George Cooke of Westminster, and it was their youngest son (Sir) Edward Hertslet (1824-1902) who succeeded his father as Foreign Office librarian on 20th November 1857. Lewis Hertslet initiated and his son continued the two series of publications Hertslet's Commercial Treaties (from 1820) and British and Foreign State Papers which eventually, in 1922, became a single series published officially by the Foreign Office. Lewis Hertslet died on 16th March 1870.
This series consists of files in the Safety, Health and Welfare (SHW) series of the Ministry of Labour and earlier files of the Home Office, some of them re-registered and continued in the SHW series. These Home Office files are mainly pre-1940 files from the Home Office six figure series (most of which are in HO 45 and HO 144 ) but also some later files from the XPC symbol series (most of which are in HO 371) The SHW series deals with the administration of factory inspection and safety, health and welfare in factories, and is concerned with the interpretation and enforcement of the several Factories Acts and other regulations, rules and orders. Some files deal with specific accidents, inquiries, or the assessment of technological innovation. Among the subjects covered are the employment in factories of women and young persons and special precautions for particular industries or types of machinery (functions which were transferred to the Ministry of Labour from the Home Office in 1940 on a temporary basis with the transfer made permanent in 1946). The series also includes papers of the Home Office Industrial Museum Committee, the minutes, papers and reports of the Factory Welfare Advisory Board, material on various international labour conferences and High Court decisions on some cases prosecuted under factory legislation. Contains some files originally in HO 45.
This series consists of sample case files of references to the Lands Tribunal, including some transcripts of hearings. The cases relate to the acquisition of land, capital gains tax, corporation taxes, estate duty, capital transfer tax, town and country planning, compensation and various other subjects. Arrangement: Each piece in this series is coded, reflecting the various jurisdictions exercised by the Tribunal: REF: references to the Tribunal. The more important are under the following Acts: Land Compensation Act 1961: Acquisition of land Compulsory Purchase Act 1965: Acquisition of land Taxes Management Act 1970 Capital Gains, Development Lands and Coporation Taxes Development Land Tax Act 1976 Capital Gains, Development Lands and Corporation Taxes Lands Tribunal Act 1949: Arbitration by consent Town and Country Planning Acts 1971 and 1973 Planning permission Coal Mining Subsidence Act 1957 Compensation LCA,CP,AO: compensation payable to untraced owners, or owners abroad (Absent Owners) under Land Clauses Consolidation Act 1845 as amended by Lands Tribunal Act 1949 Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 DET: determinations under Finance Act 1910 Estate duty, Finance Act 1975 Capital Transfer Tax LR,LRA: determinations under Leasehold Reform Act 1967 Housing Act 1980 L.COM: Land Commission Act 1967 R.L. : Rights of Light Act 1959 MIN : Appeals against determinations by the Ministry of Housing and Local Government and the Department of the Environment under Town and Country Planning legislation and regulations.
Bound copies of the official minutes of the Industrial Council. Administrative history: Following the Whitley Report produced at the end of the First World War, the Army Council decided to apply the principles set out in the report to War Department establishments in the United Kingdom employing industrial workers. Accordingly, a departmental committee, the War Department Industrial Council, consisting of representatives of the official and trade union sides and meeting at the War Office, was set up. The broad aim for this Council and its subsidiary Shop, Departmental and Works or Yard Committees was to provide a recognised means of consultation between the management and the employees in the respective establishments. Also, it was to ensure that employees were given a wider interest in and greater responsibility for the conditions under which they performed their work, to ensure that agreed regulations were carried into effect and to prevent friction and misunderstanding. The War Department Industrial Council continued in being until the creation of the unified Ministry of Defence in 1964.
This file series covers Genetically-Modified related issues including Genetically Modified Herbicide Tolerant (GMHT) crops, seed purity standards, the National List regulations, and environmental issues relating to the cultivation/production of flax. Administrative history: The Sugar Division was originally formed on the amalgamation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAFF) and the Ministry of Food in 1955. MAFF acquired functions from Ministry of Food relating to the sugar industry and became responsible for beet and cane sugar (and also artificial sweeteners and isoglucose). The Division responsible in 1982 when series opened was the Sugar, Oils and Fats Division (SOF) covering domestics and international policy and the operation of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) for (a) sugar and isoglucose (b) oilseeds and fast, peas, beans and dried food. From 1995, the Division also took responsibility for alternative crops. In 1998 divisional responsibility for the file series was passed to New Crops and Sugar (NCS) Division. The remit was policy work on: EU sugar regime and on domestic sugar industry matters; the agricultural implications of the introduction of GMOs (genetically modified organisms) into UK agriculture, including general MAFF co-ordination of GM work; support for energy crops; encouragement of other agri-industrial materials; and CAP regimes for flax/hemp and cotton. NCS then changed to GM and Industrial Crops in 2001 and merged with Chemicals and Biotechnology Division (ex-Department for Environment, Transport and the Regions) in August 2001 to become Chemicals and GM Policy Division.
This series consists of files of the Aerodromes Division of the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation. The Aerodromes A Division used the AA, AAA, AAB and AAC file series; Aerodromes B, D and E Divisions used the AB, AD and AE series, respectively; the Aerodromes Estate Management Division used the AEM, AEMA, AEMB, AEMC and AEME series; and the Aerodromes Planning Divisions the APA, APB and APC series. Administrative history: Upon the formation of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, an Aerodromes Division was formed to deal with matters relating to the licensing, inspection and regulation of airports and aerodromes and any attendant financial and legal matters. The Aerodromes Division was divided into four sub-divisions, Divisions A and B dealt with questions on land matters affecting aerodromes, the acquisition and disposal of land and buildings, rights of way, rehousing of persons displaced by aerodrome development and related compensation, capital investment etc. Aerodromes C Division dealt with the premises at London (Heathrow) Airport, and the Aerodromes D Division dealt with licensing policy, administration etc. at non-State aerodromes. This structure survived under the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, but towards the end of their administration the functions were distributed between three Aerodromes Planning Divisions, A, B and C, and an Aerodromes Estate Management Division. Upon the formation of the Ministry of Aviation in 1959 the functions were again re-distributed to Aerodromes Planning and Aerodromes Management Divisions, neither of whose files are represented in this series.
The series contains records which emerged from the implementation of the recommendations of the Crowther Committee Report on Consumer Credit (Cmnd. 4596). The records also concern work subsequently undertaken by the Consumer Credit Branch in respect of consultation with interested parties, legislative proposals for the regulation of credit, and the implementation of policy. Administrative history: In March 1973, the Consumer Credit Branch was formed from the DTI's Industrial and Commercial Policy Division 2 (IC2). The new branch, reporting directly to a Deputy Secretary, was established in order to take forward the work arising from the recommendations of the Crowther Committee Report on Consumer Credit (Cmnd. 4596). In March 1974, the functions of this branch were transferred to the newly created Department of Prices and Consumer Protection while retaining the original name. From August 1977 it became Branch 2 of the newly formed Consumer Services, Commodities and Consumer Credit Division where it remained until the Department of Prices and Consumer Protection merged with the Department of Trade. Consumer Credit Branch then became part of the new Consumer Affairs Division Arrangement: The series is arranged in departmental reference order.
This series contains sampled files from the Ministry of National Insurance and its successors relating to cases referred to the responsible minister for a decision on questions affecting the payment of national insurance contributions, credits for persons not liable to pay contributions, and eligibility for benefit under the various National Insurance Acts. There is also material of the establishment of reciprocal arrangements with other countries. Administrative history: The National Insurance Act 1946 provided that from the appointed day, 5th July 1948, every person (with the exception of married women, for whom special provision was made) over school leaving age and under pensionable age in Great Britain, and fulfilling residence conditions prescribed by regulations, was compulsorily insured under the Act. Insured persons were to be divided into three classes: Class I, employed persons; Class II, self-employed persons; Class III, non-employed persons. The Act provided that in order to establish a source of funds the insured person, together with his employer, should make contributions with additional contributions from the Exchequer. Under certain circumstances, insured persons were not liable for contributions and could obtain credits. Under s.5 of the Act exemptions and credits could be made inter alia for periods of unemployment or incapacity for work, full-time education, full-time unpaid apprenticeship or where income was deemed not to exceed £104 per annum.
The series contains a mixture of policy and operational work. Primarily, the records concern bilateral discussions between Treasury and government departments on annual spending in the areas of transport and broadcasting. The records should contain the ministerial bilateral discussions between the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and the Secretaries of State for the responsible government departments; to 1988, these private office papers were returned to the expenditure divisions rather than being kept by Treasury as discrete collections. The 'TBP' prefix denotes the registry theme 'Transport, Broadcasting and the Public Trustee' whereas the succeeding 'TB' prefix denotes the registry theme 'Transport and Broadcasting'. Administrative history: From 1982 to 1984 the Public Services (Sector), Home, Transport and Education (Group), Home and Transport (Division) covered the TBP prefix functions. From 1985 to 1987 the division name changed to Education and Broadcasting Division and covered the TB prefix functions. The functions for both TBP and TB prefixes were as follows. TBP functions: Estimates and Cash Limits; Public Expenditure; Local Authorities; Roads; Transport; Scottish Highlands and Islands Shipping Services; European Community; Broadcasting; Wireless Telegraphy; Public Trustee Office; Treasury/Ministers of the Crown Ministry of Transport and Research. TB functions: Broadcasting; Wireless Telegraphy; Transport Policies; Transport Regulation. Arrangement: The records are arranged chronologically in file prefix order. The TB prefix will follow the TBP prefix being the later prefix of the two.
The records in this series cover departmental policy on the construction industry and the maintenance of the system of Building Regulations. Administrative history: The CI files were first raised in 1971 by the Construction Industry and Materials Division which sat within the Department of the Environment's Construction Industry Directorate. In 1974 the Division split, forming the Construction Industry (Overseas) Division and the Construction Industry (Home) Division. As, however, the overseas Division had some home responsibilities, the divisions were re-named Construction Industry A Division and Construction Industry B Division in 1976. In 1979 three new divisions were set up: Construction (Home) Division, Construction Professional Division and International and Construction Manpower Division. In 1980, they were replaced with three numbered divisions (CI 2 corresponding to the Construction Manpower Division, but CI 1 and CI 3 not having a direct correlation to their predecessors). In 1981 CI 2 was absorbed into CI 1, and in 1982, CI 3 was renumbered CI 2. In 1984 the Construction Industry Research Research Unit was set up. It ceased to exist in 1989. In 1990 the Construction Industry Directorate was renamed the Construction Directorate, a name it retained until 1991. Arrangement: Within each transfer the records are presented in former reference order thereby reflecting their original administrative arrangement.
This series contains minutes of meetings of the Colonial Development Advisory Committee, which was appointed to consider and report on applications for assistance from the Colonial Development Fund. Administrative history: The Colonial Development Advisory Committee which was appointed in 1929 by Lord Passfield, Secretary of State at the Colonial Office, with the following terms of reference :- In accordance with Section 1 of the Colonial Development Act, 1929, to consider and report on, in the manner to be prescribed in the regulation to be made by the Secretary of State under Section 1 (9) of the Act, applications for assistance from the Colonial Development Fund, in furtherance of schemes likely to aid and develop agriculture and industry in the Colonies, Protectorates and Mandated Territories, and thereby promote commerce with, or industry in, the United Kingdom by any of the means specified in Section 1 (1) of the Act. This committee was superseded during the Second World War by the Colonial Development and Welfare Advisory Committee.
This series contains Registrar's orders for the Liverpool District Registry from August 1853 to May 1938. The orders relate to interlocutories made by solicitors' applications on behalf of the parties involved in a legal action in the Chancery Court. This is the best run available of Registrar's orders from the Lancaster Chancery Court district registries. There is an index arranged by plaintiff's surname in each book. The orders that follow it should not be confused with the orders of court which settle a case. Court orders were intended to adjudicate the case in hand, while the District Registrar made orders to regulate the proceedings of the court regarding the case. They may secure further time for evidence, obtain documents within a time limit, fix dates for affidavits or exceptions to answers to be filed, require the defendant to pay his costs, etc. Each is dated, and the names of the parties in the case are stated. The Registrar's orders may cross refer to court orders and decrees of the court, which can then be further traced. They are almost invariably in chronological order, and solicitors in response to whose application the orders were granted are often named. They are signed nominally by the District Registrar. Arrangement: The orders are generally in chronological sequence.
Printed routine orders issued to ships and establishments for information, guidance and action. The orders cover matters of general interest or requiring wide circulation, including technical, administrative and disciplinary regulations, and official instructions and information. The 'P' series contains only amendments to Confidential Books. Administrative history: In 1909 a series of Admiralty Weekly Orders were instituted to supplement the circular letters. In July 1914 the latter were discontinued and new series of Admiralty Weekly and Monthly Orders were established, the latter including Confidential Monthly Orders. Orders in each of these series were numbered consecutively each year. These in turn were replaced in May 1921 by two series of Admiralty Fleet Orders and Confidential Admiralty Fleet Orders, which were similarly arranged. In 1951 a third series of Limited Confidential Admiralty Fleet Orders was introduced. All volumes contain tables of contents and some indexes as noted in the catalogue. On the absorption of the Admiralty, War Office and Air Ministry into the Ministry of Defence in April 1964 Admiralty Fleet Orders were replaced by Defence Council Instructions (RN).
This series relates to the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and its predecessors to regulate imports of agricultural produce into the United Kingdom following over-production by the exporting countries and the consequential world surpluses in the 1930s. It also relates to the measures taken to secure stability of prices as a result of price depression and deflation in certain of these countries. It contains papers relating to the steps taken to protect home-producers by the imposition of import duties and quotas, and to the preferences afforded to countries within the British Empire. Files illustrate the activities of the ministry and its predecessors in the international field including relations with League of Nations Committees, World Economic Conferences, Imperial Economic Conferences, and the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation; also papers dealing with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The series includes some files of the General Department of the Board of Trade. The series contains some IT files re-registered from MAF 276.
The records in this Lord Chamberlain's Department series comprise mainly notices of events, and lists of those to be, or suitable to be, invited or presented. They are entered in volumes. Some documents contain printed material, such as invitations and programmes. A note is sometimes included of the numbers invited to an event, with the numbers attending and absent. The reasons for non-attendance may be given; the names of absentees may be scored out of the list. The notices state dates and times, as well as any relevant regulations or protocol to be observed, and where the event was advertised. The presentations and presentation lists note who were presented at levees and drawing rooms, and by whom. They sometimes give the reason for a presentation e.g. the gaining of a promotion/commission, or, for a lady, the occasion of her marriage. The lists also include proposals for attendances and presentations, and notification of delegates wishing to submit petitions or addresses, or to be granted an audience. The concert and ball lists also include breakfasts and children's parties. There may be a note of the type of dress to be worn, and of whether music is provided. The garden party invitation lists give the invitee's address, as well as the type of ticket to be issued.
Records of the Factory Department and Inspectorate dealing with the administration of factory legislation and the inspection of factories. Early files in the series were created in the Home Office. The series includes minutes of meetings and conferences of the inspectors, and files relating to the arrangement of their districts. The series also includes factory registers and certificates of employment and files relating to the employment of women and young persons. A detailed history of the inspectorate up to 1932 can be found in the Centenary Annual Report of the Chief Inspector (piece 19). Other files relate to the Rossetti Committee working party set up to review the organisation of the Inspectorate in 1955. Administrative history: Factory inspectors were first appointed under the Factory Act of 1833. A central office, later named the Factory Department, was established and supervised by the Domestic Department, and later the Industrial Department, of the Home Office. The Factory Department and the administration of factory legislation was seconded to the Ministry of Labour and National Service under defence regulations in 1940, and this transfer was made permanent in April 1946. A Factory and Welfare Department was created to supervise the work of the inspectorate.
Umpire's decisions on appeals against the decisions of local Reinstatement Committees under the Reinstatement in Civil Employment Act 1944. The series also includes selected case files. Administrative history: The Reinstatement in Civil Employment Act 1944 obliged employers to reinstate former employees on release from military service or civil defence forces on written application within a prescribed period of time. Employees were to be reinstated for a period of twenty six weeks, or fifty two in the case of continuous employment of at least one year, on terms and conditions no less favourable to the applicant than during his previous term of employment. Reinstatement could be refused where this would entail the discharge of another permanent employee whose period of employment exceeded that of the applicant prior to military service. Unsuccessful applicants could appeal to a Reinstatement Committee comprising members representative of both employers and employed persons and assessors appointed by the Minister of Labour. The committees could issue an order that employment be made available or compensation paid for loss of earnings. Appeals against a committee's decision or its refusal to issue an order were heard by the Office of the Umpire, an independent statutory authority originally appointed by the Crown under the National Insurance Act 1911 to hear appeals in national insurance and contributory pensions cases. In 1947 this function was transferred to the National Insurance Commissioners and the Umpire thereafter heard appeals under the Reinstatement in Civil Employment Act 1944 and the National Service (Miscellaneous) Regulations 1948.
Files of the Nationalised Transport Division B set up following the Transport Act, 1962, and including papers taken over from other divisions. The files mostly relate to policy concerning, and the regulation of, water resources, canals and inland waterways. They include correspondence with and papers concerning the British Waterways Board, the papers of the Bowes Committee of Inquiry into Canals and Inland Waterways 1956 to 1958, papers concerning waterways-related bills, and files on specific canals and waterways. Also included in the series are files concerning the pensions of employees of the nationalised transport industries. This series contains some re-registered files from the WRG series: MT 140. Administrative history: Following the Transport Act 1962 the administrative divisions in the Ministry of Transport responsible for dealing with the various sections of the public sector transport industries were reorganised and Nationalised Transport Divisions A and B were formed. The former had responsibility for certain aspects of nationalised rail and road undertakings, including British Rail's manpower and labour relations, pay and pensions, property issues, health and welfare legislation and the Transport Holding Company. The latter dealt with inland waterways (public and private legislation affecting the waterways and relations with British Waterways Board).
Files relating to control of the Forestry Commission by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, following the abolition of the Ministry of Land and Natural Resources in February 1967, and dealing with all aspects of general forestry policy and direction of the Forestry Commission. The series includes re-registered files from the KF series ( MAF 48 ), the LU series ( MAF 141 ) and the Ministry of Housing and Local Government C series: HLG 140. Administrative history: The Forestry Ministers had been the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries in England and Wales, and the Secretary of State for Scotland. In October 1964 the Government announced that the responsibility for forestry in England and Wales would be transferred from the Minister of Agriculture to the Minister of Land and Natural Resources. It was then decided that responsibility for forestry in Wales should rest with the Secretary of State for Wales. The position of the Secretary of State for Scotland was unchanged. In February 1967 the Ministry of Land and Natural Resources was dissolved and responsibility for forestry in England returned to the Minister of Agriculture. The Forestry Act 1967 consolidated the Forestry Acts 1919-1963. It is this act that, with some amendments, regulates forestry to the present day.
Minutes of meetings. Administrative history: The House to House Collections Act 1939, together with regulations, was introduced to prevent fraudulent charity collections. With the exception of 'national' collections, for which authority would be granted by the Home Secretary, charity promoters were required to obtain a licence from the police authority. Section 9 of the Act relates specifically to the Metropolitan Police District for which the Commissioner of Police is the licensing authority. As a result of this legislation, the commissioner set up an advisory committee consisting initially of representatives from charitable organisations, the London Mendicity Society, the London County Council War Charities Committee, the Association of Municipal Corporations, a liaison officer from the City of London Police and an accountant. Unlike the legislation relating to Street Collections, the 1939 Act did not specifically require the setting up of an advisory committee and in April 1948 consideration was given to disbandment although the committee continued to meet. The committee appears to have wound up in 1957. Physical condition: Volumes pre-printed to be used as Occurrence Books but used as scrapbooks for typed minutes
Records selected in this series reflect policy, discussion and development in respect of Horse Passport Regulations; Introduction of the National Equine Database; Horse Breed Working Group; Shadow NED Board; and Review of passport issuing organisations. Administrative history: Following accession to the EEC, the divisions dealing with meat matters were reorganised along product lines rather than subjects and the duties of the Division responsible for livestock covered, among other things, the oversight of the import and export of livestock to ensure the maintenance and improvement of the UK's breeding stock. In 2002, the Commission Decision 2000/68/EC was announced with the intention to prevent horses being slaughtered for human consumption which had been administered with medicines in the previous six months that had not been authorised for use in food producing animals. One of the main requirements of the Decision was to require all horses to have passports. Policy surrounding this decision and its implementation within the UK fell to the Pets and Quarantine Branch of International Trade Division. Alongside the issue of horse passports was the setting up of a National Equine Database.
This series contains selected Ministry of Health files, dealing mainly with administration, in relation to specific groups of local authority employees involved in public health and poor law services. Other subjects include Parliamentary legislation, the making and application of acts and regulations; exchequer grants to local authorities; housing accommodation for elderly persons; bye-laws relating to maternity homes and the Local Government Manpower Committee on food and drugs administration. Several files cover the reorganisation introduced by the Local Government Act 1958, involving the delegation of health and welfare functions to district councils. One sub series of papers deals with matters appertaining to radioactive substances, with special reference to the medical officer of health's responsibility for health and safety, in the face of potential radiation hazards. Most of the files were registered in the 91001-91100 and 91401-91420 series of the Ministry of Health; there are also files with registered numbers in older file series 010100, 100000, 104000, 108000, 115000, 126000 and 155000.
This series consists of registered files of the Road Traffic Division. Matters covered include road traffic legislation, car parking, pedestrian crossings and London traffic congestion. Files belonging to Road Traffic Division were registered under the prefix RTC and included re-registered files from the RLT and H(TS) series (otherwise in MT 108). Some files from the London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee (otherwise in MT 37) have been re-registered in the RTC series. Administrative history: The Road Traffic Division was set up in 1955 when the Traffic Safety Division was dissolved and replaced by separate Road Safety and Road Traffic divisions. In 1961 Road Traffic Division was dissolved and its functions distributed between General Traffic, Road Safety, and London Traffic divisions. The work of Road Traffic Division concerned the regulation of road traffic including parking places waiting restrictions, pedestrian crossings, road signs and traffic signals, one-way traffic systems, speed limits and weight restrictions. It was also concerned with the London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee.
Mostly post 1951 files of the Accountant's, later Accountancy Service Division, dealing with accountancy work within the board and on behalf of other departments, particularly in connection with costs in the National Health Service and grant aid for industry. A few files relate to investigations into the financial administration of war time and post war controls undertaken by the accountancy service of the Industries and Manufactures Department. The series also contains records relating to the board's responsibilities under the Inspectorship Under Companies Act 1948. Administrative history: During the Second World War the accountancy work of the Board of Trade expanded greatly especially in connection with the administration of wartime controls. From 1942 the work was carried out by the Industries and Manufacturers Department, mostly at a regional level, and continued into the post war period. It undertook accountancy work involving the emergency schemes introduced for controlling the production, distribution and price of consumer goods. Professional staff within the Branch dealt mainly with the examination of manufacturers' and distributors' records to ensure compliance with the regulations. Investigations into known, or suspected, offences were also undertaken. As controls were relaxed, the work reverted to normal accountancy services for the board, and provision of accountancy services for other government departments. An Accountants Division, later Accountancy Services Division was established in 1951 to handle this work.
Files from the Home Office AIB (Aliens Immigration Branch) and IBR (Immigration Branch) symbol series. The subjects covered in the AIB and IBR series relate to immigration control at sea ports and airports in the United Kingdom, and enforcement of the regulations originally defined by the Aliens Restriction Act 1914 and subsequently by the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962 and the Immigration Act 1971. These matters were, until 1962, the responsibility of the Immigration Branch of the Aliens Department of the Home Office. This branch and its functions were then transferred to the newly formed Immigration and Nationality Department. Arrangement: Before 1949 some files on immigration topics were registered under an SI (Suspect Index) number and were re-registered in 1949 under an AIB number. The IBR series originated in 1963, following the Commonwealth Immigrants Act, and continued in parallel with the AIB series until 1971 when both symbols were replaced by the IB (Immigration Branch) series. In numerical order by departmental file number. The inclusion of a date after a file number (as in 1/3/3(60)) indicates the year in which the file is supposed to have been created, but often it only indicates the year in which the first subfile was raised on a particular subject.
Files from the Home Office DDA (Dangerous Drugs) series and the DRC (Drugs Record Cases) series. They relate to Home Office functions and responsibilities with regard to dangerous drugs, as defined by the Dangerous Drugs Act 1951 and the Dangerous Drugs Regulations 1953. The DRC series consisted of case files on individual addicts: the three files included in this series contain minor policy arising out of the case. Administrative history: The Home Office had wide-ranging responsibilities with regard to dangerous drugs, including: manufacture, supply, stocks, control and disposal of both new and existing drugs; import and export, illicit traffic and smuggling; drugs branch inspectors; liaison with police; use by hospitals, chemists, doctors, dentists, nursing homes, health centres, first aid and emergency; and all aspects of addiction. Arrangement: The inclusion of a date preceding a file number (eg. DDA (1959) 2/14/8) or following the DDA symbol series heading (eg. DDA 67) indicates the year in which the file was supposed to have been created, but often it only indicates the year in which the first subfile was raised on a particular subject.
Out-letters relating to the administration of the Burial Acts 1852 to 1859, burial provisions of local Acts and exhumations. The entry books also contain copies of licences for exhumation and re-interment from 1887. After 1900 the out-letters relate mainly to the administration of local Acts and to exhumations. Administrative history: The Burial Acts 1852 to 1859 enpowered vestries to appoint burial boards with powers to provide new burial grounds. The special powers of the General Board of Health over burials in London were abolished in the first of the Acts. The Home Secretary was given powers to close old burial grounds and to sanction and regulate new ones, and he could also license burials in closed grounds. In 1855 three inspectors of burial grounds were appointed under the Act of that year. The Burial Act 1900 transferred most of these functions to the Local Government Board, which was already concerned in financial aspects of the burial boards. The Home Office retained powers relating to fees for interment under local acts until 1946, when these functions were transferred to the Ministry of Health. The Home Secretary retains authority over exhumations.
Correspondence and papers relating to awards for services in the Korean War between 1950 and 1954 granted as a result of military operations undertaken in Korea under United Nations auspices. Some papers relate to British and foreign exchange of awards. Administrative history: As a result of military operations in Korea there were two general awards which concerned United Kingdom forces, issued to all those entitled to them under published regulations. These were: The Korea Medal, instituted by King George VI on 25 July 1951 The United Nations Service Medal for Korea, instituted under the authority of the General Assembly of the United Nations on 25 September 1951. In addition there were certain Unit Citations issued by the authorities of the United States and South Korea, indicating recognition of outstanding achievements in conflict by fighting units, rather than by individuals. Arrangement: These papers were originally stored in racks and when put into file covers at some time after 1963 were not numbered in date order
This series consists of specimens of records of the Commissioners of Audit and successors relating to accounts. For each 'vote' a guide book was kept, containing a short history of the vote, the relevant acts of Parliament, orders in council, treasury minutes and regulations, references to decisions affecting the account, and a description of the examination that was to be given to it. Treasury letters authorising expenditure, and fixing salaries on appointment were entered in books of authorities entitled 'examiners'. Journals record the considerations given to a particular subject, starting with the observations of the examining auditor on the relevant section. Observations are made concerning any transaction or accounting procedure which appears open to criticism or which requires further authority or explanation. Queries (and Observations) were routinely sent to audited bodies. Standard forms were used for this purpose, returnable to Exchequer and Audit Department, and the explanations received were assessed and determinations recorded on the forms. The forms were retrospectively bound into volumes - Query Books.
This series contains files of the Board of Trade and its successors concerning the drafting of subordinate legislation, and on litigation and prosecutions arising in relation to the acts, regulations and orders administered by the board and its successors. Some files concern instructions to law officers and counsel to advise, and their opinions. Many files relate to the period during and immediately after the Second World War, and cover such topics as wartime trade, treaties of peace, consumer rationing and price controls. Other files concern company law, trade descriptions, trademarks, patents and copyright, restrictive trade practices, bankruptcy, liquidation, customs and import duties, employment and industry, industrial development and investment, weights and measures, monopolies and mergers, hallmarking, hire purchase, international trade, consumer protection, tourism, and transport. A number of files concern proceedings of the Vehicle and General Tribunal, under the Tribunals of Inquiry Act 1921. The Board of Trade solicitor acted as legal advisor to the Export Credits Guarantee Department, and a number of these files are included. The series also contains indexed volumes of general minute books of the department (1875-1941).
This series consists of papers, memoranda and instructions drawn up by the first Colonial Defence Committee of 1878-1879, by the second Colonial Defence Committee of 1885 to 1904, by the Committee of Imperial Defence (CID)'s Colonial Defence Committee and by the CID's Overseas Defence Committee (ODC), in response to schemes for the defence of the colonies and dominions. The memoranda and papers relating to each defence scheme include returns of colonial forces, statements of military expenditure on colonial garrisons and papers pertaining to colonial military law, port regulation in time of peace, the return of warlike stores and the armament of stations. Administrative history: These papers were circulated to the relevant Colonial Governors, members of the Colonial Defence Committees, other members of the Committee of Imperial Defence, to ministers, representatives of the Admiralty, War Office and Colonial Office, and to other officials as necessary for information and discussion. The defence schemes themselves were drawn up by colonial governments or their representatives. Arrangement: Chronological and by subject
Records relating to planning for the implementation of Value Added Tax (VAT) in the UK. Includes studies and reviews into the transfer of current taxation arrangements to VAT and tax liabilities, and the development of directives to conform with EEC regulations. Administrative history: Upon the introduction of the VAT in 1973, responsibility for the overall administration of the new tax lay with the Internal Taxation Group of HM Customs and Excise. Directorates which had responsibility for VAT included: Revenue Duties Value Added Tax Liability VAT Machinery and Control I VAT Machinery and Control II Accountant and Comptroller General's Office (Division G) The Departmental Planning Unit was responsible for VAT planning prior to 1973 and the development of VAT directives, including those relating to EC harmonisation. In 1977, the Liability directorate and the Machinery and Control directorates were reformed into the VAT Administration Directorate. In 1985 the directorate was reclassified as a Division within the Internal Taxation Group.
Board of Education files relating to schools in England defined as institution schools under s.15 of the Education Act 1902. Most of the files relate to schools held in orphanages. Administrative history: Section 15 of the Education Act, 1902 (re-enacted as Section 25 of the Education Act, 1921) defined Institution Schools as '. any marine school, or any school which is part of, or is held in the premises of, any institution in which children are boarded..'l. The 1944 Education Act contains no provision corresponding to Section 25 of the Education Act, 1921, but Section 100(1)(b) of the Education Act, 1944 gives the minister power to continue payments previously made. A Local Education Authority was at liberty to maintain such schools in order to include them in its provision for public elementary education, in which case the schools were '. subject to the provisions of this Act as to the appointment of managers, or as to control by the local education authority.' Its refusal to do so, however, did not prevent the managers of voluntary institutions from continuing to receive a Parliamentary grant, which consisted of annual and fee grants, based on average attandance. Under Grant Regulation 3 of the Education Act, 1918, these grants were converted to one consolidated grant, with increases for suitable provisions in practical instruction. Many institution schools have ceased to exist. They have either become public elementary schools maintained by the local education authorities, or closed and the children transferred to local schools.
This series contains registered files of the Colonial Office departments dealing with matters relating to the security of British colonies and colonial intelligence matters. Administrative history: Colonial intelligence and security matters were handled by a number of Colonial Office departments in this period, which dealt with liaison with the military and intelligence services, local colonial intelligence organisations, police and security matters, civil defence and emergency regulations for particular colonies and for the colonies generally. From 1959 to 1961, the Intelligence, Police and Security Department had responsibility for these matters. As the number of remaining colonial territories decreased, there were frequent reorganisations of the remaining work: responsibility passed to the Defence, Intelligence and Security Department in 1961; to the Defence, Intelligence and Hong Kong Department in 1963, and finally to the Defence and Intelligence Department in 1965. In 1966 the Colonial Office and the Commonwealth Relations Office merged, and colonial intelligence and security matters in the Commonwealth Office passed to the Defence Department.
This series includes records concerning salaries of teachers and university academic staff, supply of and demand for teachers, development of specialist training courses, teacher training and qualification requirements, teacher training issues arising from the proposed transfer of responsibility for the teaching of educationally disabled children from the Ministry of Health, reduction of oversize classes, shortage of mathematics and science teachers, encouragement of married women to return to teaching, the quota system for Local Education Authorities, revision to the machinery for salary negotiation, the introduction of a one year professional training council to award and withdraw certificates to regulate the profession, pupil-teacher ratios and class sizes, development of relationships with examination boards, and aesthetic development. Administrative history: Teachers Branch I (Supply and Conditions of Service) was established in 1961. It was responsible for the regular assessment of the demand and supply of teachers including recruitment, publicity, qualifications and conditions ofservice. The branch also had general responsibility for the National Advisory Council for the Training and Supply of Teachers (NACTST). The existing Teachers Branch was renamed Teachers Branch II (Training) and was responsible for all questions relating to the training of teachers and the administration of Teachers Training Colleges, including building programmes and admission policies. Arrangement: In numerical sequence within each transfer.
This series contains British aircraft master manuals for a selection of civil aircraft types and files of the Civil Aviation Authority's Airworthiness Division on the airworthiness requirements of aircraft and necessary amendments to flight manuals. Subjects covered include handling instructions for pilots; performance figures for operations in differing weather conditions, altitudes etc; regulations and limitations on airspeed, engines, loading, safety etc; and schedules of aircraft dimensions and weights. The series also includes various papers on foreign aircraft flight manuals received by the CAA as part of their regular liaison with overseas aircraft manufacturers. Administrative history: A flight manual is a document prescribed by the International Civil Aviation Authority and is intended primarily for use by the flight crew of an aircraft. The manual contains limitations, recommended procedures and information of a nature that adherence to it will enable the level of safety intended by the Airworthiness Requirements and the Air Navigation legislation to be regularly achieved. Manuals for all types of aircraft are initiated by manufacturers and are approved, amended and, in some cases, published by the Civil Aviation Authority in accordance with requirements set out in Chapter A6-1 of the British Civil Airworthiness Requirements The type manual is modified, if necessary, for each individual aircraft.
Policy files on issues, initially affecting residual Supplementary Benefit regulations after the cessation of Supplementary Benefit Commission, but mainly covering income support, housing benefits, community charge and council tax benefits (means tested benefits) and laterly pensions, poverty, disability income and capital, and arrangements regarding live-in carers. Administrative history: In 1980, the control of the administration of the supplementary benefits system and the provision of reception and resettlement centres passed to the Department of Health and Social Security on the abolition of the Supplementary Benefits Commission. In 1989, after the establishment of the Department of Social Security, responsibility for reception and resettlement centres passed on to the Resettlements Agency. Arrangement: The series is arranged in file reference order (within each transfer).
This series contains records of commissions set up to enquire into the service, salary scales, etc. of colonial government staff. Administrative history: Three commissions were appointed between 1945 and 1947 to enquire into the structure, remuneration and superannuation arrangements of the Civil Services in the African Colonies, with special reference to the following points: (i) The relationship of the salaries and conditions of service of locally recruited and externally recruited officers (ii) Advancement of officers from one grade to another (iii) Incorporation of element of cost of living bonus in salaries (iv) Method of conversion to new scales (v) Disposal of any balance of cost of living bonus not incorporated in salary on conversion (vi) Provision of suitable arrangements for consultation between Governments and organisations representing the interests of staff on matters relating to salaries and conditions of service (vii) The provision, by means of Public Service Commissions or otherwise, of suitable machinery, where this is not already in existence, for regulating the selection and promotion of candidates for posts, the filling of which is not subject to the approval of the Secretary of State The three commissions were: (a) the Holmes Commission covering the territories in East Africa, the report of which was published in 1948 as Colonial No. 223 (b) the Harragin Commission covering the territories in East Africa, Colonial No. 209 of 1947 (c) the Fitzgerald Commission covering Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland, Colonial No. 222 of 1948
Out-letters relating to the administration of the Anatomy Acts 1832 and 1872, and an alphabetical register of licences. Administrative history: The Anatomy Act 1832 made the Home Secretary responsible for the regulation of schools of anatomy, the granting of licenses to practice anatomy and the appointment of inspectors of anatomy. In 1832 a single inspector was appointed to carry out these duties with the aid of assistants, in England, Wales and Scotland. There was a separate establishment for Ireland under the Chief Secretary for Ireland. In 1842 the single inspector was replaced by two joint inspectors for England and Wales and a separate inspector for Scotland with an office in Edinburgh. The joint inspectors for England and Wales had special responsibility for the metropolitan area and the provinces respectively, and their office in London was known as the Anatomy Office. Supervision of licensing and of the inspectorate was carried out by the Domestic Department and then Miscellaneous (E) Division of the Home Office until 1920, when these functions were transferred to the Ministry of Health.
Circulars concerning the administration of local government and parliamentary elections. They give information about changes in electoral law and offer guidance on subjects related to the administration of elections. The major topics covered are: the canvass for the electoral register; the display and sale of the electoral register; absent voting (postal and proxy); the nomination of candidates and eligibility to hold office; the provision of polling stations; and the procedure at the count. Administrative history: The Home Office is responsible for the administration of the electoral process in Great Britain for both parliamentary and local government elections. This includes the franchise and registration of electors, the conduct of elections and regulation of election campaigns. The RPA series of circulars are issued periodically by the Home Office to returning officers and electoral registration officers for all electoral areas in England and Wales. Copies are also sent to local authority associations and the main political parties. Circulars pre 1949 were sent to electoral registration officers. Arrangement: The circulars in this series fall into three groups: firstly for the years 1933-1943; secondly the RPW series for the years 1944-1948 which followed the Parliamentary Electors (War-Time Registration) Acts 1943 and 1944 (the 1943 Act formed Part I of the Parliament (Elections and Meeting) Act 1943); and thirdly the RPA series which began in 1949 following the Representation of the People Act 1948.
These are registers etc. of bonds given as security for the administration of the property of persons of unsound mind. They were kept by the commissioners and masters in lunacy attached to Chancery and, after the Lunacy Act 1890, by the Management and Administration Department, otherwise the Office of the Master in Lunacy of the Supreme Court of Judicature. Administrative history: The jurisdiction of the property of lunatics has been vested in the crown since the reign of Edward I and its exercise was generally delegated to the Lord Chancellor. Until the Lunacy Regulation Act 1862 jurisdiction was established by an inquiry known as a inquisition. Once jurisdiction was established a Committee of the Estate was appointed who had to enter into recognisances to the crown by a bond with at least two sureties. In 1888 the Lord Chancellor authorised the acceptance of companies in place of private sureties. The penalty on the bond was fixed and the sureties were approved on behalf of the crown by the attorney general up to 1842 and thereafter by the masters in lunacy.
This series contains policy, precedent and procedural and legal files from Branches 7, 8 and 9 of the Directorate of Control (Operations). The subjects cover the functions of these departments which were the creation and amendment of air traffic control regulations, airspace use, the drafting of air miss reports, policy on dangerous flying areas, special flights, royal flights, meteorological procedures, search and rescue and the Aeronautical Information Service. Common to many Ministry of Aviation file prefixes, 'CN' was allocated as an arbitrary file series code which denotes no specific theme. Some records from the ACNO file series have been re-registered into this series. Administrative history: The Directorate of Control (Operations) was set up in the Ministry of Aviation in December 1962 as part of the new National Air Traffic Control Services organisation. It was responsible for medium-term planning and implementation of air traffic control services in the United Kingdom, both civil and military, and its Director was the senior military adviser on air traffic control to the Controller of the National Air Traffic Control Services. In the latter half of 1966 the directorate was transferred to the Board of Trade where it remained through the merger of that department with the Ministry of Technology in 1970 to form the Department of Trade and Industry. In 1972 its functions were transferred to the newly established Civil Aviation Authority. Arrangement: Arranged in former reference order by accession
A representative selection of minute books and registers of claims of local Pensions committees and sub-committees passed to the National Assistance Board. Administrative history: The Old Age Pensions Act 1908 set up Local Pension Committees to determine claims, applications and questions under the Act, such committees having the power to appoint sub-committees. The central pension authority designated by the same Act, to which appeals against decisions of the committees and sub-committees might be referred, was the Local Government Board. In 1919 its functions were taken over by the Ministry of Health. The Old Age Pensions Act 1936 maintained this machinery. The Old Age Pensions Consolidated Regulations 1922 (S.R & O 1921 No 2001) gave the central pension authority certain supervisory powers over the proceedings of the committees and sub-committees, including power to prescribe the form of the registers kept by Committee Clerks. The National Assistance Act 1948 abolished the local pension committees and transferred the functions and work of the Committees to the National Assistance Board.
This series consists of orders, agreements, regulations and similar documents together with the relevant plans, made by government departments and by local authorities and subsequently confirmed by government departments. There are also a number of files which relate to land acquired under compulsory purchase orders. Apart from a few orders made between 1937 and 1939, the orders cover the period 1944 to the time of local government reorganisation in 1974. Many of these orders were made under the Housing Act 1936 and subsequent Housing Acts, the Acquisition of Land (Authorisation Procedure) Act 1946 and the Highways Act 1959, acts which enabled local authorities to acquire land compulsorily. The series also includes licences issued under the Milk and Dairies (Amendment) Act 1922 and the Milk (Special Designations) Order 1923 ( BD 20/431-432, and schemes made under s31(1) of the National Health Insurance Act 1913 ( BD 20/433-434). Arrangement: The series is arranged mainly in County Council, County Borough Council, Borough Council, Urban District Council and Rural District Council order within each transfer to the Public Record Office.
The series consists of evidence submitted to the Royal Commission on Legal Services, papers circulated to Commissioners, sub-committee papers, draft chapters of the final report and C(correspondence) and LS (legal services) series of files. Administrative history: The Royal Commission on Legal Services was appointed in July 1976 under the chairmanship of Sir Henry Benson GBE, FCA, to inquire into the law and practice relating to the provision of legal services in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and to consider whether any, and if so what, changes are desirable in the public interest in the structure, organisation, training, regulation of and entry to the legal profession, including the arrangements for determining its remuneration, whether from private sources or public funds, and in the rules which prevent persons who are neither barristers nor solicitors from undertaking conveyancing and other legal business on behalf of other persons. The report of the commission was published in October 1979 (Cmnd. 7648).
Records of the Cattle Emergency Committee, July 1934, the Cattle Committee, 1934 to 1937, the Livestock Commission, 1937 to 1939, and of the Livestock Advisory Committee and sub-committees, including reports and minutes of proceedings, confirmed orders, by-laws and schemes. Administrative history: A Cattle Committee was set up on 31 July 1934 under the Cattle Industry (Emergency Provisions) Act of that year to administer the cattle subsidy. In 1937 it was succeeded by a Livestock Commission under the Livestock Industry Act 1937. The functions of the commission were to advise on and keep under review the arrangements for the production, marketing, slaughter, sale and consumption of livestock; and to prepare schemes for such matters as the administration of the cattle subsidy and the regulation of livestock markets. Its main functions were suspended in September 1939 when the Ministry of Food was set up and the commission was dissolved on 15 January 1940, when its remaining functions passed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. A new Meat and Livestock Commission was established under the Agriculture Act 1967 to improve marketing, production and distribution, and exercises many of the ministry's functions in this field. A Technical Committee on Abattoir Design was appointed on 21 December 1933 on the recommendation of the Reorganisation Committee for Fatstock. Its report was issued on 25 June 1934.
Correspondence and papers of the Lord Chancellor's Office and the Crown Office (until 1921) relating to the administrative, ecclesiastical, judicial and parliamentary powers and duties of the Lord Chancellor. Subjects covered include the administration, organisation and staffing of the various courts, commissions, including the Porter Committee on the Law of Defamation, tribunals, and government departments for which he is or has been directly or indirectly responsible; constitutional questions; the drafting and interpretation of legislation; regulations and Supreme Court rules; emergency and wartime legislation, committees of inquiry; patronage and other ecclesiastical matters; the House of Lords; parliamentary elections; the legal profession; legal aid; the grant and issue of warrants, patents, orders; honours; visitorships; colonial and commonwealth matters; private international law; and enemy war crimes. Some papers relate to matters of concern to the Lord Chancellor as a member of, and legal adviser to Cabinet. Includes records relating to the Trustee Securities Committee (Lawrence Committee)( LCO 2/1043-1047), the County Court Rule Committee and the Supreme Court Rule Committee.
This series consists of bound volumes of Privy Council proceedings, 1670 to 1795, and entry books of the same from 1795 until 1928, when they were discontinued. From 1795 most of the volumes of minutes are indexed. Until 1826 there are a number of gaps in both minutes and entry books. Before c1750 the bound volumes consist of rough notes by the clerks of the council taken apparently during the actual sessions of the council and its committees. From the middle of the eighteenth century, however, they constitute a more formal record and both the volumes and the entry books were evidently compiled as a record of council decisions after its business had been concluded. In a few instances, the entry books also contain associated papers. From the middle of the nineteenth century the records seem to be little more than an abstract of orders in council. The minutes reflect the wide range of business undertaken by the council, including blockade, licencing of foreign trade, quarantine regulations, Irish and colonial affairs, Channel Islands business, and the consideration of a variety of petitions, particularly regarding the grant of charters. Arrangement: Arranged in date order, although in the case of the bound volumes there is some overlapping becauses different clerks were in attendance for certain months only, and each kept his own set of minutes.
This series consists of registered files relevant to major road schemes and traffic regulation in the London area, together with papers arising from the traffic implications of redevelopment proposals. Some files relate to parking facilities, street lighting, traffic signs and the London Government Act 1963. Some of the files in this series have been re-registered from the HA (otherwise in MT 110), RDL, RTC, TCC, TCD (otherwise in MT 111) and UT file series (otherwise in MT 137). Administrative history: London Highways Division was formed in 1964 to combine the duties of a Divisional Road Engineer for Greater London with those of a Headquarters Division for trunk and classified roads in the London area. In 1976 the London Highways Division was re-organised and became Greater London Roads and Traffic Division. The division had responsibility for the monitoring of road schemes including the examination of the traffic implications of major re-development proposals in London, and the use of the Minister's powers of direction over planning applications affecting trunk roads. Under the Highways Act 1959, it was responsible for the making of orders and schemes for trunk roads. It was also responsible for the allocation of funds, within delegated limits for the maintenance and improvement of trunk and classified roads and for the examination of applications for grants and loans.
This series contains files on subjects including teacher pay in schools, further education and universities; teacher employment and conditions of service; recognition of different qualifications for teachers; teacher superannuation; teacher appraisal; teacher misconduct; relations between the Department and local government bodies with regards teachers. Administrative history: Teachers Branch 1 was overtaken by the new Teachers Pay and General Branch in 1988. Division A was responsible for the pay and conditions of service of school and further education teachers, staffing matters arising from the Education Reform Act 1988, the administration of regulations on teachers and prospective teachers, and teacher misconduct. Division B was responsible for the pay and conditions of service of university staff, educational research, liaison with the Education, Science and Arts Select Sommittee, local government issues, and the coordination of work on the Data Protection and Freedom of Information Acts. By 1993 there was a single Teachers Branch where Division A dealt with pay and conditions of service, liaison with the School Teachers Review Body, school teacher appraisal, misconduct and other staffing matters. Division C covered teacher manpower policy, provision for shortage subjects and recruitment matters. The Teachers Pension Agency had been set up as an executive agency to manage the superannuation scheme.
This series contains agendas, documents circulated and minutes of meetings from 1919 of the County Court Rule Committee. Files in this series may fill some of the gaps in the Rule Committee records in LCO 2. Administrative history: The Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1881 s19 vested the power to regulate procedure in the County Court through rules having the force of law. The County Court Rule Committee consisted of five county court judges, and later a registrar and representatives of the professional bodies. Its functions were similar to those of the Supreme Court Rule Committee, but since 1884 its rules have been required to be confirmed by that body. The committee was serviced by the Lord Chancellor's Office. The committee was engaged in rule making (required by new legislation which was to be implemented by the courts), revision of rules where there were gaps and flaws in existing rules, consideration of suggestions from within the department, committee and from outsiders and revokations of those which were obsolete.
This series consists of war diaries for British and colonial units serving in theatres of operations between 1914 and 1922, including Russia, at home, and in the colonies, and British military missions, and Armies of Occupation between 1919 and 1922. No diaries for the campaign in South West Africa in 1914-1915 are included in this series because no British units participated; operations were conducted under the auspices of the South African armed forces. The diaries contain daily reports on operations, intelligence summaries and other pertinent material. The range of dates shown for individual items does not mean there is a document inside the file for each day between the two covering dates. Please note: Selected First World War war diaries have been scanned as part of The National Archives' ongoing initiative to digitise some of our most frequently ordered original documents. Digital copies can be searched and downloaded. Administrative history: From 1907 units in active service were required to keep a daily record of events by the Field Service Regulations Part II. These records are called War Diaries or, occasionally, Intelligence Summaries.
The files relate to policy work concerning the regulation of financial institutions within the United Kingdom and its dependencies. Administrative history: To 1985, policy records concerning financial institutions were created under the Domestic Economy Sector, Home Finance Group, Financial Institutions Division. From 1985, a new Public Finance [sector] was introduced. Banking policy matters were managed under this sector by the Home Finance Group and there under the Financial Institutions Division. The organisational titles had changed by1986 to the Financial Institutions and Markets Group, Banking Division; still under the same sector. In 1992 the Division name changed to the Banking and Mutuals Division. The function of the Division was: all business with the government's banker; The Bank of England; the prudential supervision of all banks and deposit taking institutions; National Girobank; European Community banking legislation; proposed banking supervision legislation; building societies, Building Societies Commission and the Registry of Friendly Societies; National Loans Fund policy and Societies; currency and coinage and The Royal Mint. Arrangement: The records are atrranged chronologically in file prefix order.
This series contains MS prefix files of the Marine Safety branch of the Ministry of Transport (until 1965) and Board of Trade (later Department of Trade and Industry). On 1 April 1994 the Marine Safety Branch of the Department of Transport became the Marine Safety Agency and files started being raised in the MSA prefix. The Marine Safety branch files include papers on life-saving appliances; loss of, and explosions on, ships; hovercraft; registration of ships; international conventions; approval of design and materials; packing and storage of dangerous goods; bulk cargoes; nuclear propulsion of ships; wreck and salvage matters; collision regulations; pleasure craft and fishing vessel safety; pollution; emergency planning; safety equipment testing and authorisation; load lines and compatibility of UK legislation with international marine legislation. The Marine Safety Agency was responsible for implementation of the Government Strategy for Marine Safety and prevention of pollution from ships. It existed until 1998 when it was amalgamated with the Coastguard Agency (TCA) to become the Maritime and Coastguard Agency.
This series contains files relating to expert committees or sub-committees and board papers from the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) including: Commission on Human Medicine (CHM), The Medicines Commission, Committee on Safety of Medicine, Committee on Safety of Drugs (Sub-Committee on Chemistry, Pharmacy and standards), the Committee on Dental and Surgical Materials, Pharmacovigilance Expert Advisory Group (PEAG, Sub-Committee of CHM), Biologicals/Vaccines Expert Advisory Group (BVEAG, Sub-Committee of CHM), Committee on Review of Medicines (and Immunologicals Sub-Committee) and the Committee on Safety of Drugs. Administrative history: The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) was created in 2003. It assumed the responsibilities of the Medicines Control Agency (MCA), created in 1989, and the Medical Devices Agency (MDA), created in 1993. Prior to the creation of the MCA and MDA, the regulation of medicines and medical devices was undertaken by policy divisions in the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC). When the Agency was created the records collection was split between MHRA and DHSC. The files in this series represent those for which MHRA retained ownership.
Selected records from a single series of registered files of the Treasury Solicitor relating to work on behalf of the Admiralty. The files illustrate the legal aspects of work undertaken including salvage claims, accident inquests, claims for damages arising from collisions, or actions by the Admiralty, contracts (such as the sale of Admiralty owned premises), consideration of awards under the Royal Commission on Awards to Inventors, agreements between the Admiralty (acting on behalf of Her Majesty's Government) and foreign and domestic companies, questions arising from staffing matters, appeals against decisions of court martial, use of land and sea beds for defence purposes, and infringements of fishing regulations. Arrangement: The files are arranged in the order of their former references. The files were originally registered in a consecutive numerical sequence which was renewed annually. Thus each former file reference has the series prefix, 'A', followed by two digits representing the year in which the file was registered, and then the file's own unique number: e.g. A/59/347.
Files from the Home Office CRN (Coroners) series. They relate mainly to legislation, general administration and complaints by members of the public, and illustrate the responsibilities of the General Department for Coroners, including the issuing of circulars, collection of statistics, and fixing of salaries. Administrative history: The Home Office's main functions are the collation of statistical returns, the issuing of circulars publicising the effects of new legislation or policy and the fixing of salaries in cases of disagreement. Coroners are appointed by county councils (and until 1972 by county boroughs) but the Home Office receives notice of all new appointments and it works in conjunction with the Lord Chancellor's Department in disciplining coroners and in regulating procedures at inquests and post-mortems. Arrangement: The papers in this series are arranged by departmental file number. The inclusion of a date before or after a file number (as in CRN (1961) 1/4/18) indicates the year in which the file is supposed to have been created, but often it only indicates the year in which the first subfile was raised on a particular subject.
A broken series of rolls, presumably compiled in the Court of Common Pleas following the act of 1728 for regulating attorneys and solicitors (2 Geo II, c 23), but not required by it. Their purpose is uncertain, but they may have been intended to provide a list of those actually practising in the court in a given year; they may have ceased because their compilation came to be considered unnecessary. Arrangement: All the surviving rolls are arranged in alphabetical sequences by the first letter of the attorneys' names, those names being preceded by the name of a county, presumably that in which they resided. At the right-hand side are two columns, initially headed 'proclam' and 'abinde', which include both figures of low denomination and punched holes whose significance has not been established, and occasionally the note of a term and regnal year. An occasional attorney is noted as having been struck off as a result of a rule of court. The last two surviving rolls are a little different, in that the holes disappear, although the occasional notes of terms continue. Additionally, the word 'mort' has been added alongside the names of many attorneys who had died, but their dates of death are not given, and the annotations may have been made some time later.
This series contains original correspondence relating to the Bahamas. It is not chronologically uniform until quite late, e.g. volume 15 covers the years 1735-1805. Until 1848 it includes correspondence relating to the Turks and Caicos Islands. The correspondence consists of:- Governor's dispatches, enclosing Acts and journals of the Assembly, Council Meetings, Resolutions of the Assembly and Council, petitions, trials in Vice-Admiralty Court and letters from private persons. Letters from Andrew Symmer, Agent for Turks Island, enclosing Regulations, trade figures and accounts for the island. Secretary of State to Governor - dispatches. The dispatches and letters were sent in duplicate, sometimes triplicate, and especially in times of war, took a long time, going by way of Turks Island, New York or Jamaica, to get to London. By the time the Secretary of State received the dispatch and replied, his advice was often no longer needed. The Bahama Islands, poor, without natural resources, were neglected in the sphere of finance and defence. For these they were dependent upon the Treasury, Admiralty and War Office, which were already heavily committed to the French and American wars. 1760-1786 sees the rise of the Secretary of State and the decline of the Board of Trade. However there are many Board of Trade documents among the series, evidently sent to the Secretary and never returned by him. After 1782 no Board of Trade records are found in the Colonial Office group. Administrative history: From 1714 the Bahama Islands were a Crown Colony. Between 1799 and 1848 the Turks and Caicos Islands were a dependency of Bahamas. Governor: The Governor represented the Royal prerogative, controlling administration, finance and judicial business. Council: His chief instrument of power was the Council (usually ten members) nominated by himself. It acted as his advisory body, a Court of Chancery and Appeals and as the Upper House of the Legislature. It could initiate legislation. Assembly The Assembly's job was to pass by-laws and ordinances for meeting immediate needs of the colony. The Governor had the sole right of convening, proroguing, and dissolving the Assembly. Bahamian Laws, styled Acts, had to have the Royal Assent and the Governor could veto laws which conflicted with English Statutes. In spite of this the Assembly could delay bills (e.g. Turks Island Regulations) and ever since the early eighteenth century the Assembly possessed real powers which expanded through the century. The Assembly did not accept, without a struggle, the validity of Colonial orders-in-Council, any member could initiate Bills except those dealing with financial matters or pertaining to private interest. Since the time of Woodes Rogers, the Governors had to rely on the Assembly to vote them their salaries, and although the Council claimed the right, money bills invariably originated in the Assembly. Another aspect of the Assembly power is seen in the appointment of an Agent (1760) to watch over its interest in London. Fortification: Poverty, defencelessness, wrecking and privateering describe the Bahama Islands at this time. Since the late seventeenth century, every governor lamented the lack of fortification. In 1760 the two existing forts (Montague and Nassau) were in disrepair and the Assembly had no money to put it to rights. Governor Maxwell finally managed to reinforce the depleted garrison at New Providence, but they were not enough to fend off the Spaniards who attacked in May 1782, occupying New Providence for one year. Andrew Symmer, Agent for Turks Island: Symmer saw that there was a possibility for lucrative gain in Turks Island, rich in Salt Ponds, and got himself appointed as Agent in 1766. He made his own regulations for the salt rakers, many of whom came from Bermuda each year for the season. The Governor curbed Symmer's power and a struggle ensued. The question was whether Turks Island was actually in the Bahama Island group and whether the Governor could legislate for Turks Island. While Symmer and the inhabitants at Turks Island refused to accept the Governor's Regulations, the Assembly refused to legislate for Turks Island until 1772, and there was no representative in the Assembly until 1799. Montfort Browne and the American attack, 1776: Although warned by General Gage and Captain Andrew Shaw against the American rebels, Browne made no preparations. The rebels easily seized New Providence. John Gambier, Lieutenant-Governor, Samuel Gambier and others of the Council launched serious charges against Browne's misconduct and inaction, while Browne accused them of entertaining the rebels. Taken by the rebels, Browne spent over a year in America. He was finally recalled to face the charges and was not reinstated. External affairs greatly influenced the events of the Bahama Islands. It was in time of war, especially during the Seven Years War (1756-1763) and the American War of Independence (1775-1783) that the Bahamians had a chance of doing well by privateering. Samuel Gambier, Judge of Vice-Admiralty Court, Acting Governor (1758-1760): Samuel Gambier was accused of profiting through privateer interests. Removed from the Judgeship in 1760 and dismissed from the Council at the same time, he was later reinstated by Maxwell. American Loyalists: Besides increasing trade and privateering, the American War of Independence, brought many refugees to the Bahama Islands from New York and St. Augustine. The most outspoken Loyalist was James Hepburn, an Attorney from St. Augustine. The effects of the Loyalists were felt in politics in new factional feelings; commercially exports increased; agriculture was given a new impetus with the cultivation of cotton; socially the Loyalists introduced the conception of plantation life and a new relationship of master and slave. While the white population doubled, the black population trebled. Arrangement: The original list of this series was prepared by Mrs D G Saunders, archivist of the Bahamas. Some of the bulkier enclosures were separated from their covering dispatches and bound in separate sub series.
Records selected in this series reflect policy and legislation in respect of the implementation of EC Directives 97/78 & 91/496 - veterinary checks on products of animal origin from EC and Third Countries and live animals; Proposed amalgamation of the animal & animal products; and and Third country regulations. Administrative history: This series was opened in 1991 by the Meat Hygiene Division to capture papers on policy on imports of meat and other animal products for human consumption, animal by-products not for human consumption, animal products for research purposes and composite products, and also to review legislation. Due to various restructuring over the years the team remained much the same but were either merged or renamed with Animal Health (BSE and International Trade); International Animal Health. The work then came under the remit of Global Animal Health (GAH). While GAH still do a small amount of licensing most of the operational work was transferred to Animal Health - the legacy information relating to operational work before transfer to the Animal Health remains with GAH. GAH continue to work closely with Animal Health who now do most of the delivery/operational work.
This series contains files concerned with the regulation and development of cattle markets, including some relating to the Livestock Industry Act 1937 and the Livestock Commission established by that Act. Administrative history: The Markets and Fairs (Weighing of Cattle) Acts, 1887 and 1926, provided that it was an offence to hold sales of cattle, sheep or swine, in any mart where a weighing machine was not provided unless the auctioneer was exempted from the provisions of the acts by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. The Livestock Industry Act, 1937, which established the Livestock Commission, provided in section 14 that no premises in Great Britain, other than premises on which a market in respect of livestock was lawfully held at some time during the year ended 30 November, 1936 (the basic year), should, on or after 1 November, 1937, be used for holding a market in respect of livestock unless the premises were approved for the purpose by an Order of the Livestock Commission made with the approval of the appropriate minister. Section 17 of this act also empowered the commission to make bye-laws for promoting efficiency and economy in the marketing of livestock. After the dissolution of the Livestock Commission in 1940, its functions were thereafter exercised by the minister.
This series contains files which deal with the supply of farm and garden seeds; the control of exports and imports of seeds; the operations of the Seeds Import Board; liaison with the Seed Production Committee and the Seeds Advisory Committee; the administration of orders made under the defence regulations for the maintenance of supplies and essential services; and also matters concerning the production, distribution and use of seeds, arising in connection with the administration of the Seeds Acts, 1920 and 1925. Contains some files re-registered from the SDB file series ( MAF 273 ) and the SDS file series: MAF 370. Administrative history: Important orders made by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries regarding seeds included: (1) the Agricultural Seeds Order, 1940. This Order made it necessary for every person carrying on any undertaking in England and Wales which involved the production, storage, distribution and use of seeds, to keep records and to furnish estimates and returns relating to that undertaking. 2) The Agricultural and Vegetable Seeds Order, 1941. This Order restricted the importation into the United Kingdom, and the buying and selling, of certain specified seeds, to licensed seedsmen. (3) The Growing of Seed Crops (Control) Orders, 1942 and 1943. These Orders controlled the growing of certain specified crops for the production of seeds except under and in accordance with the terms of a licence granted by or on behalf of the minister.
Files of the various divisions of the Ministry of Food and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food dealing with food standards and food labelling, including standards of hygiene in food processing. The series deals mainly with the administration of the Food and Drugs Act 1955 in respect of additives, contaminants, preservatives and labelling. Many files in this series concern the preparation of regulations for particular foodstuffs under this act and the reports, minutes and papers of the Food Standards Committee, its sub-committees, panels etc appear in numerous files. Also in this series are files relating to co-operation or relations with other organisations concerned with food standards, such as the Ministry of Health and the FAO/WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission. Some records of the Ministry of Food, Food Standards Group were re-registered into the FS series from MAF 101. Administrative history: The minister was advised by the independent Food Standards Committee (1947, reconstituted 1960), for which the Food Standards Divisions acted as technical and administrative secretariat. Arrangement: Files in this series are in former reference order within these accessions: 1-205, 206-342, 343-440, 441-576, 577-935.
The series contains registered files (EJ series) of the Plant Variety Rights Office and Seeds Division, EEC Registration Trials for UK Plant Varieties, and covers UK involvement in the maintenance of national lists of varieties of agricultural and vegetable species eligible for certification and marketing. The compilation and maintenance of such lists was a requirement placed on member states by EC directives. The files cover policy on the setting up and organisation of a national system of testing and trials; preparation of legislation to implement the EC directives and regulations; compilation of the national lists; minutes and papers from various committees and working groups set up to organise and administer the system, and consultations with interested organisations. Administrative history: The Plant Variety Rights Office and Seeds Division was established in 1965 following the passing of the Plant Variety and Seeds Act 1964. This division was responsible for all aspects of work relating to plant breeders rights, species lists and catalogues, seed quality and liaison with the National Institute of Agricultural Botany, the Official Seed Testing Station, and the National Seed Development Organisation Ltd.
This series consists of files relating to all aspects of the control of London traffic, including speed limits, waiting restrictions, one-way systems, weight restrictions, pedestrian crossings, parking, road signs and traffic signals. There are also files on the implementation of the recommendations of the London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee. Administrative history: The London Traffic Division was formed in 1960 under a reorganisation of the Road Safety and Vehicle Registration Group. It had responsibility for the regulation of road traffic in the London area including speed limits, waiting restrictions, one way traffic systems, weight restrictions, pedestrian crossings, parking places including the use of parking meters, road signs and traffic signals. The Division also had responsibility for servicing the London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee which included placing the Committee's recommendations before the Minister and taking action on these recommendations. In 1961 the Division took over some of the functions of the Road Traffic Division (RTC).
Census process plans are complete sets of instructions and papers relating to the productions of census results. Process plans are produced for each census, and though they vary in format, they generally cover the same subject areas. These subject areas are: census documents (regulations, orders, specimen schedules); field planning (instructions to field staff); clerical processing (coding, quality control, processing system and flowchart, editing system); data preparation (keying instructions); computer processing (description of computer systems); glossary (source for definitions, universes); data input (processing and sample edits); data files (specifications); data stream processing (lists of files); tabulation processing (design, specification and acceptance); follow up surveys (quality checks); reports on processing work (100% and 10% processing, table acceptance). Administrative history: The Census Division maintained a master copy of the process plan, maintained the index, prepared and distributed new papers issued, papers deleted or replaced and amendments to papers, and arranged for the reproduction and distribution of the census plan. Arrangement: The census process plan is arranged in volumes to facilitate ease of reference and handling.
This series relates to the Registrar General's responsibility to interpret, administer and enforce statutory requirements for the registration of births, deaths and marriages, and (from 1926) adoptions, and to regulate the work of local registrars. It mostly comprises files about individual cases and includes opinions of the legal advisers of the Ministry of Health. Includes original minutes by Sir Sylvanus P Vivian, Registrar General 1921-1945, and opinions given by the Legal Adviser at the Ministry of Health, in addition to more general correspondence. Also covers consular and HM Forces registration from 1914-1972. Administrative history: The law relating to registration has been much supplemented and amended since 1836. It is now governed by the Marriage Act 1949, the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953 and the Registration Service Act 1953. Arrangement: The file references include a date element, the final two numbers being the year in which the file was created. RG 48/1 -3289 are arranged by subject and then numerical order within each year.
Copies of records of local authorities and the Church Commissioners relating to burial ground removals, although not all records have been received. A number contain a plan of the original place of burial, some with place of reinterment also. Administrative history: The origin of official custody of records of burial ground removals dates back to 1911 and arose initially out of a recommendation made by the Attorney General that such records be made and deposited with the local registrar of births and deaths. The Home Secretary agreed to the suggestion made by the Registrar General that they should be deposited instead with the miscellaneous records held by the General Register Office. The provision was incorporated into various private bills under which the removal of graves was authorised, and subsequently in the Town and Country Planning (Churches, Places of Religious Worship and Burial Grounds) Regulations 1950 (SI 1950 No 792), the Disused Burial Grounds (Amendment) Act 1981 and schemes under the Pastoral Measures 1968, although it was omitted from the Local Authorities Cemeteries Order 1977 (SI 1977 No 204). Arrangement: Catalogued by location, site title and years covered by inscription on the tombs and gravestones; the main date corresponds to when the graves were removed. At first each transfer of records was listed alphabetically, but from RG 37/198 onwards transfers are listed in chronological order.
Registered files of the Board of Education, Technical Branch concerning the work and organisation of technical colleges These files relate mainly to applications for the approval of National Certificate courses. They also contain H.M. Inspectors' subject reports, comments and reports on the local aspects of technical education, general correspondence, syllabuses, prospectuses, and papers relating to premises. The records of some colleges contain early papers having particular reference to the endorsement by the Board of Education of grouped course certificates. From 1945 technical colleges and technical schools papers have been merged to form a new file series. However, in a few cases papers dated after 1944 have been included in the series due to either the closure of the college or the termination of a particular national certificate course. Administrative history: The grouped course certificates scheme was initiated under Chapter 6 of the 1907-1908 Regulations (subsequently Chapter 5) and continued until after the close of the First World War when the Board of Education combined with various professional bodies in the formation of schemes for the award of national certificates. Arrangement: Alphabetical in county order for England and Wales.
Correspondence with members of the General Nursing Council for England and Wales and its statutory committees, plus collections of the papers of Sir Joseph Priestley and Dame Ellen Musson, chairman of the council in 1920-1921 and 1926-1943 respectively. The pre-war files contain much original material on the establishment and development of the council and its committees' work, including reports on visits to examination centres. Sir Joseph Priestley's papers concern the drafting of the constitution, rules and regulations of the council, reciprocal registration with Scotland and Ireland, and relations with other bodies such as the Ministry of Health and the Royal Medico-Psychological Association. Dame Ellen Musson's papers relate to her membership of the Inter-Departmental Committee on Nursing Services (1937-1939) and the Central Emergency Committee for the Nursing Profession (1939). Two similar sets of papers returned with these, relating to the Royal College of Nursing and to the International Council of Nurses, were sent on to those bodies. An index of current members was started for the 1960 Council and continued to the 1980 Council ( DT 20/337 ). A complete list of members 1920-1983 is in DT 20/339). Administrative history: The composition of the General Nursing Council and its statutory committees was established by the Nurses Registration Act 1919, amended by the various Nurses Acts of 1943, 1949 and 1969 and abolished by the Nurses, Midwives and Health Visitors Act 1979. Arrangement: Alphabetical
This series contains representative examples of work done by the Intervention Board's verification team based in Truro and covering Devon and Cornwall, dealing with inspections of farmers and traders to verify compliance with the regulations under the relevant European Economic Community Common Agricultural Policy schemes. The verifiers then report their findings to the operational areas of the Agency responsible for the administration of that particular scheme. The divisions concerned are the Internal Market Division and External Trade Division. Administrative history: The Truro team worked from the establishment of the Board in 1972 to 1990, when it was abolished and responsibility for Devon and Cornwall passed to the Bristol verification team. Arrangement: Explanation of file reference prefixes Prefix(col)Meaning ADM(col)Admixture BFS(col)Beef for sale BO(col)Butter/Oil C(col)Cereals CER(col)Cereals DMP(col)Denatured milk products DSM(col)Denatured skimmed milk FV(col)Fruit and vegetables HOR(col)Horticulture IB(col)Intervention Board MP(col)Milk products PB(col)Private (storage of) butter SB(col)Sales of beef SMC(col)Skimmed milk - content SLM(col)Skimmed milk - liquid SMP(col)Skimmed milk - powder
This series contains executive board and associated committee minutes for South Wales, Midland (Amalgamated), Cumberland and Lancashire Associated collieries. Records of the latter also contain various registered financial and business files and unregistered papers which are mostly concerned with disputes. This series also includes administrative records of the Central Coal Mines Scheme. Administrative history: The Coal Mines Act 1930 placed the control of coal output in the hands of the industry. It followed the voluntary associations that had appeared between 1927 and 1929 and aimed to protect wages and mitigate competition within the industry. There was a 'central scheme' for the regulation of the production and sale of coal throughout Great Britain, administered by a central council of colliery owners; and a district scheme for the regulation of the production, supply and sale of coal within the district, administered by a 'district executive board' of local colliery owners. The central council allocated a maximum output to each district, adjusted allocations, and inflicted fines where they were exceeded. The district boards divided the allocation among the collieries, assigning to each a standard tonnage in proportion to past output, and imposing penalties for non-compliance. The price of coal was also set by the district boards but this system did not prove successful as the Central Scheme could not coordinate the prices set by the different districts. Therefore the legislation was reinforced in 1932 to allow the central scheme to give directions to the district boards as to the quantity of coal to be produced and the terms and conditions of its sale. The 1930 Act also provided for the formation of committees of investigation to protect the interests of consumers. A national committee investigated complaints by consumers against the operation of the central scheme, and district committees investigated complaints against the district schemes. These committees consisted of an equal number of representatives of the owners and miners, with an independent chairman appointed by the Board of Trade. At the outbreak of war the department put into action the planned organisation for coal control; this consisted of a system of coal supplies officers in the coalfields, divisional coal officers in the civil defence regions and coal export officers in the appropriate posts. A House Coal Distribution (Emergency) Scheme was also established to control domestic distribution; this was under the indirect control of the divisional coal officers. On the production side, coal production committees were set up in April 1940 whose chief function was to maximise output at district and pit level. These committees contained representatives of the owners and the unions. Early in 1942 a system of regional controllers was created to co-ordinate and rationalise the demand for increased coal output; this absorbed the divisional coal officers. Each controller supervised the work of directors for production, labour and services. In 1942 this system of regional organisation passed into the hands of the Ministry of Fuel and Power. Arrangement: Chronological by scheme
These files deal with individuals interned; chiefly enemy or neutral aliens, but including a few British subjects detained under Defence Regulation 18B. The papers in this series date from 1940 when the I/P series was created following the institution of mass internment. The Home Office was the Department with overall responsibility for the welfare of internees and, from August 1940 onwards, for the internal management and administration of the camps in which they were kept (the War Office retained responsibility for security and the provision of guards). A Home Office personal file would be created whenever the Department became involved in the case of a particular internee for whatever reason: when there was correspondence from the camp authorities or from a protecting power, when the internee himself or his relatives wrote to the Department or to a Member of Parliament, when an internee was released or died during internment. The personal case files in the series, a small sample of the total created, as a whole give a picture of how the internees were treated and of the conditions under which they were kept. Most of the files relate to enemy aliens who were interned under the Royal Prerogative; some however relate to nationals of friendly countries who were detained under Article 12(5A) of the Aliens Order 1920 (as amended by the Aliens Order 1940) which provided for the detention of any alien considered dangerous or undesirable and who but for the war would have been deported; a few relate to British nationals considered to be of'hostile origins or association' who were detained under Defence Regulation 18B. Administrative history: Internment, of a relatively small number of German nationals considered to be potentially hostile, began immediately before the outbreak of war on 3 September 1939. Shortly thereafter tribunals, operating under the guidance of the Home Office and usually under the chairmanship of a member of the legal profession, were set up in order to decide which enemy aliens were to be interned and which were to be allowed to remain at liberty, with or without restriction. It was initially the intention of the Home Office that only those enemy aliens who remained sympathetic to the war aims of their native countries, or who were otherwise considered to be dangerous or disreputable, should be interned; refugees, most of whom were Jewish, who had left Germany or Austria to escape Nazi persecution were to be allowed to remain free, in the main without restriction. However, as the threat of invasion and fears of a 'fifth column' increased, all enemy aliens came to be regarded as a potential threat. The number of German and Austrian nationals being interned increased dramatically from 12 May 1940 onwards, Italian nationals began to be arrested following Italy's declaration of war on 10 June 1940 and by July 1940 many aliens previously considered to have had the status of refugees had been arrested and interned. The Government was subsequently to recognise that it had acted precipitately in initiating mass internment and, in a reversal of policy, the release of internees in substantial numbers began in the autumn of 1940 (although a few had been released as early as August of that year). Most internees had been released by the end of 1942; of those that remained many were repatriated from 1943 onwards. It was not, however, until late in 1945 that the last of the internees were finally released. Arrangement: In numerical order by departmental file number by transfer.
Education Department and Board of Education files of correspondence and papers relating to certified efficient independent and private schools. The files contain in some instances, as indicated in the series list, parish files where the parish contained only one school. A few files relate to the Channel Islands. Administrative history: Prior to 1870, parliamentary grant was refused by a large body of schools because it carried with it obligation to be inspected and the increased requirements of the Revised Code of Minutes and Regulations of the Committee of Privy Council on Education, 1862, led to withdrawal by schools which had received grant in the past. Under Section 72 of the Elementary Education Act, 1870, schools which refused inspection by the Education Department could not be regarded as giving efficient education and it followed that the enforcement of school attendance under byelaws approved by the Education Department placed these schools in some difficulty. The position of schools which were prepared to accept inspection but not to fulfil the conditions of Section 7 of the Elementary Education Act, 1870, in respect of religious instruction was regularised by the Elementary Education Act, 1876. Section 48 of the Act defined as 'certified efficient' any school which '. is not conducted for private profit and is open at all reasonable times to the inspection of Her Majesty's Inspectors and requires such attendance from its scholars as is required in a public elementary school..'. Thus the essential difference between a 'certified efficient' school and a public elementary school was that the former was not obliged to observe the 1870 Act 'Conscience Clause'. Detailed conditions for recognition by the Education Department were set out in circular 137 (1877), revised in 1890 and 1900, and subsequently embodied in regulations published in 1908 as command paper 3944. Certified efficient schools were not obliged to engage certificated teachers and the requirements of the Teachers' Superannuation Act, 1898, affected them most adversely. Under changing social conditions the number of certified efficient schools fell from 425 in 1880 to 108 in 1900. The definition of certified efficient schools was largely re-enacted as s 170(2) of the Education Act, 1921, and referred to in s 44 in relation to school attendance. The number of certified efficient schools which did not wish to become public elementary schools maintained by the local authority continued to shrink; in 1920 there were no more than 40. Local circumstances and prejudices accounted for a small number of schools while certain charity schools desired to retain some special feature (e.g. scheme for apprenticeships); other day schools were controlled by religious orders and some locally endowed schools existed. Finally there were a few residential institutions - orphanages and one or two London 'Places of Detention' - which for one reason or another failed to fall within s 15 of the Education Act, 1902, and were classified administratively as 'certified efficient' schools. In 1927 a general statement, known as 'Rules 16' was issued '. of the conditions upon which the Board would recognise certain schools and other educational institutions as efficient but not for the payment of grant.' The widened definition took in private schools conducted for profit and related to secondary schools and training colleges, as well as elementary schools for the purposes of Sections 44 and 170 (2) of the Education Act, 1921, which were absorbed and ceased to maintain their separate identity. The term 'certified efficient' no longer exists, such schools being described as 'efficient'. All schools currently recognised as 'efficient' come within the provisions of Part III of the Education Act, 1944, concerned with the registration of independent schools Arrangement: By counties for England and Wales and the Channel Islands.
This series contains files from the CL, RE and SCD file series of the Ministry of Works and Buildings and its successors. They relate to wartime control and peacetime sponsorship of the building, civil engineering and building materials industries by the government, with particular reference to legislation, licensing and collection of statistics. Some of the files concern the regulation of the price of building materials, the Ministry's sponsorship of the National Building Agency, the Agrément Board for the construction industry, and supplies of bricks, sand, gravel, slate and other building materials. The series includes minutes and papers of various bodies, including: the Building Programme Joint Committee of the Advisory Council of the Building and Civil Engineering Industries, 1942 to 1945: the Central Council for Works and Buildings, 1941 to 1945; the Committee on the Brick Industry, 1941 to 1942; the National Brick Advisory Council, 1942 to 1951; Committee on the Salt-Glazed Pipe Industry, 1946 to 1953; National Council of Material Producers, 1965 to 1966; Interdepartmental Committee on the use of Building Materials Standards, 1946 to 1960; Building Materials Prices Committee, 1947 to 1949; the Working Party on the Phelps-Brown Report, 1968 to 1970; the Forbes Inquiry into the regulation of builders, 1969 to 1970; Anglo-Soviet technological co-operation and protocol, 1969 to 1970; the National Consultation Committee of the Building and Civil Engineering Industries; the Construction Industry and Government Policies Agreement Board and various standing consultative committees. Administrative history: The Office of Works and its successors were closely involved in the building industry, building research and the supply of building materials during and after the Second World War. In 1947 the Ministry of Works took over from the Ministry of Supply responsibility for the production and distribution of building materials and components. In April 1950, however, it relinquished research on the sociological and economic aspects of building to the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), which also took over the ministry's Chief Scientific Advisor's Division. In March 1959, DSIR became responsible for most building research, although the Ministry of Works (later Ministry of Public Building and Works) continued to control most engineering aspects of research and development. In 1954 the system of sponsorship of building applications of other departments and co-ordination of the national building programme by the ministry was discontinued. The Ministry of Public Building and works was the sponsoring department for the construction industry and the building materials industries. This developed from government consultations with industry during the war, 1939 to 1945, and the reconstruction period following, when it was necessary that each major industry should have one main point of contact with the government, through which issues of common interest could be discussed.
This series contains files on the National Assistance Board's role in the administration of the Legal Aid and Advice Act 1949, which provided for legal aid (in civil cases only) to be made available to applicants unable to pay for the services of the legal profession. Administrative history: The Legal Aid and Advice Act 1949 was passed to provide legal advice or representation for applicants unable, because of limited resources, to pay for the services of the legal profession. The Act, which made no provision for legal aid in criminal cases and came into effect on 2nd October, 1950, made the Law Society responsible for securing legal services in such cases under a scheme drawn up by the Law Society with the approval of the Lord Chancellor and the Treasury. Applications for legal aid were made to Area Committees of the Law Society and, if the Committee was satisfied with the legal merits of the applicant's case, reference was made to the appropriate office of the National Assistance Board for a determination of the financial position of the applicant. Section 4(6) of the Act placed upon the National Assistance Board the function of determining the resources of a legal aid applicant. The board's responsibilities were:- (a) To determine the applicant's disposable income and disposable capital in order to ascertain whether he or she came within the financial limits of the Legal Aid Scheme. (b) To decide whether the applicant was entitled to free or assisted legal aid. (c) To assess the maximum amount that the applicant could be required to pay to the Legal Aid Fund in respect of any proceedings. (d) To issue to the Local Committee of the Law Society the determination of means in the form of a certificate. The general principles for computing gross income and capital and the allowances and deductions to be made to ascertain the amount of disposable income and capital are set out in the Legal Aid (Assessment of Resources) Regulations 1950 (amended 1960). Because of differences in the Scottish legal system a separate Act and regulations were applied to Scotland. There was no appeal against the National Assistance Board's determinations and, with the foregoing action completed, its responsibilities within the terms of the Act were normally fulfilled. The duties of the board have been discharged since 1968 through the Supplementary Benefits Commission. The Legal Aid and Advice Act 1949 was repealed by the Legal Aid Act 1974. Under Part I of this Act provision is made for the administration of Civil Legal Aid by the Law Society and the Supplementary Benefits Commission. It also provides for Legal Advice and Assistance which is administered by the Law Society through solicitors, in which the Supplementary Benefits commission is not involved. Part II of the 1974 Act provides for Legal Aid in Criminal Proceedings, which is administered by the Courts although under Section 33, the commission can be called upon in certain circumstances to enquire into the means of an applicant for Criminal Legal Aid.
Duplicates of Certificates of Naturalisation granted in the UK by the Secretary of State for the Home Department from 1870 under the Naturalisation Act 1870, the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914, Burma Independence Act 1947, British Nationality Act 1948, Immigration Act 1971, and Immigration Act 1981; and of Imperial Certificates of Naturalisation granted in British Possessions overseas between 1915 and 1949. It does not include duplicates of certificates granted in the self governing Dominions of Australia, Canada, Newfoundland, New Zealand and South Africa. Certificates issued under the Acts referred to above show the name, address, trade or occupation, country of origin, and the names of spouse and children if applicable, with the exception of those issued under the Immigration Act 1971 and Immigration Act 1981, which do not provide information of parentage. The volumes of declarations contain nominal indexes. Arrangement: The Certificates of Naturalisation in this series are in varying form, as prescribed in the Naturalisation Regulations issued successively under the Naturalisation Acts 1870 and the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914. The particular form of any certificate is indicated by one or more capital letters immediately preceding the serial number (with the exception of Certificates A). The Regulations provide that a Certificate of Naturalisation shall not take effect until the applicant has taken the Oath of Allegiance, and that the Oath shall be taken within one month after the date of the certificate to which it relates, or within such extended time as may be allowed. In some cases the certificate was not returned to the Home Office for registration of the Oath of Allegiance and there is consequently no official record that the certificate has taken effect. It will be apparent from the duplicate whether the Oath was duly taken and registered. In order to trace a duplicate certificate of naturalisation issued between 1870 and 1981, a Declaration of British Nationality made under the terms of the Burma Independence Act 1947, and a Declaration of British Nationality, and of Alienage, made under the provisions of the Naturalisation Acts 1870, you can search by name of applicant. For a Registration of British Nationality, 1949-1981, a naturalisation, 1982-1986 and a renunciation of British Nationality, please complete our online British Nationality contact form , and we will search a database on your behalf, providing you with a document reference as necessary. There are various types of registrations (R1 - R6) described at subseries level, though from 1963, R1 registrations can include R14: Registrations issued under the South Africa 1962, as well as some R2 and R3 certificates. The series of BNA duplicate certificates ends in June 1969. From June 1969 until October 1986 the Home Office did not maintain a set of duplicate certificates issued for foreign nationals; these are often a six-figure reference starting with '0'. Often the only evidence of naturalisation is the summary index entry in the series HO 409. HO 409 has been catalogued by name of applicant for this period and for naturalisations carried out in the UK
These Lord Stewards Department's accounts are concerned with the 'Ordinary' expenditure, i.e. that authorized by the Establishments but contain often only the incidental expenses and require to be supplemented by the ledgers and other books of the various sub-departments. Before 1685 petitions and minutes of the Board are entered in these volumes; however, there are few records prior to 1698 as a fire in that year destroyed most of them. The accounts are rendered quarterly and divided by office, eg the kitchen, poultry, acatry, salsery, bakery, woodyard, carriage, chapels etc. Included here is the wardrobe, although this came under the control of the Lord Chamberlain's Department. They note the person who is owed; for what produce, other goods or services; the period for which payment is due, and the amount. Payees are given by name only without an indication of whether the person is a household official/servant or a tradesman. Imprest warrants, directed to the cofferer, by the Board, are also noted here (under the division named annotations). A great deal of diverse information is contained among these accounts. Eg expenses and allowances of servants and officials, and offices, such as nappery expenditure in the linen department; the weights and varieties of meats brought in or slaughtered; itemised expenditure for specific events. Administrative history: The position of comptroller of the Royal Household, whilst not a sinecure, was unclear as to duties by the eighteenth century. However, in origin the comptroller checked the accounts, and rendered his own account for ordinary expenditure. Supplies were originally purchased by purveyors, who, acting under royal prerogative, went out from the court, buying supplies and commandeering transport for their conveyance back to court. The inspection of provisions received from purveyors was one of the daily duties of the clerks. During Elizabeth 1's reign a system of composition developed by which counties compounded with the monarch's agents for a fixed quantity of goods at a fixed price. For a time after this, both sorts of provisioning were used. In 1660 the royal prerogative of purveyance was given up in return for a parliamentary grant for life, and the court now bought from merchants (now themselves the purveyors) at a price agreed on in a contract negotiated annually. Some purveyors were actually servants of one of the offices. This led to much improved regulation and eased the life of the clerks, as did the better organisation of the finances of the household by the creation of 'establishments'. These were begun in 1662 and comprised a list of fixed charges and allowances, regularly issued and amended by royal sign manual. They regulated every predictable (or 'ordinary') expense, such as the number of dishes, amount of ingredients, salaries and boardwages (payments in lieu of food and drink allowances, whilst in attendance on household duties). 'Extraordinary' expenditure had to be authorised by a clerk of the Board before it could be allowed in the accounts. At the end of every month the offices of the Department had to account to the Board for their expenditure under the two heads of ordinary and extraordinary charges. The latter had to be submitted in a separate 'creditor' along with vouchers (not preserved) showing the appropriate authorisation.
This series consists of correspondence and papers relating to the collection of medical and population statistics by the United Nations and other international organisations. They fall into the following categories: 1. Papers relating to various editions of the International Lists of Causes of Death. 2. Minutes of proceedings and papers of various international, commonwealth and colonial statistical conferences. 3. Papers relating to population statistics. 4. Papers relating to cancer statistics. Administrative history: The International Lists of Causes of Death was adopted in the United Kingdom in 1911 and the first manual published was in the same year. Since 1950 the Standard Manual of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases, Injuries and Causes of Death has been used. The early decennial conferences to revise the International List of Causes of Death maintained an up to date nomenclature by which the cause of death could be classified on an internationally comparable basis. An International Agreement Relating to Statistics of Cause of Death agreeing to compile and publish statistics of cause of death, according to one uniform nomenclature, was signed by the United Kingdom on 19 June 1934. This agreement was superseded by the nomenclature regulations in 1948 and additional regulations in 1956. The first conference of British Commonwealth statisticians was held in 1920, following the recommendations of the Dominions Royal Commission, its purpose being to secure uniformity, continuity and co-ordination in the collection and compilation of statistical data within the Commonwealth. Further conferences were held in 1935, 1951 and 1965. Conferences of colonial government statisticians were held in 1950 and 1953. Their purpose was to discuss current problems of statisticians in the colonial territories. The Population Commission Working Party was set up in 1947 under the authority of the Steering Committee on International Organisations. Renamed the Committee on Statistical Relations with International Organisations, its terms of reference are to secure co-ordination between departments in respect of statistical relations with international organisations, other than the European Communities, and to exercise a special responsibility for relations with the United Nations. The International Union for the Scientific Study of Population is a non-governmental organisation of demographers and others interested in population questions. The union organised the World Population Conferences in 1954 and 1965, and held their own conferences in 1935, 1937, 1959, 1961 and 1967. In order to study the aims and methods of cancer registration, a meeting of European workers was convened in June 1955 by the Danish Cancer Registry under the National Anti-cancer League. In October 1948 a working party of the Public Health Committee of the Western European Union was set up to examine available cancer statistics. The Council of Europe's Public Health Committee was established in 1954 and at present has 21 member states. Its functions are three-fold: to award medical research fellowships, to keep a permanent committee of experts on blood transfusion and immunohaematology and to set up a number of select committees of experts who produce a report on a specific subject in the health field allotted to them. In January 1950 a sub-committee of the Expert Committee on Health Statistics was set up by the World Health Organisation to study problems concerning the registration and statistical presentation of cases of cancer.
Report and papers of the Committee of Inquiry into Regulatory Arrangements at Lloyd's. Administrative history: The intention to establish a committee of inquiry into regulatory arrangements at Lloyd's was announced by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry on 10 January 1986. Lloyd's is an incorporated society of private insurers in London which provides a world-wide market for the transaction of all types of insurance business. The business is transacted by elected underwriters on their own account, in competition with one another, and with unlimited liability. As well as those professionally involved in insurance business, there are also underwriters, the external names, whose involvement is as investors. The Society is regulated by a series of private Acts of parliament, the Lloyd's Acts 1871 to 1982, which provide for the making of byelaws by those responsible under the Acts for the management of the Society's affairs. During the 1985/86 session of parliament the government introduced a Financial Services Bill, which among other things provided for a new regulatory framework for the securities and investment industry and also gave the Secretary of State power to transfer his regulatory functions under the bill to a Delegated Authority. The bill nominated the Securities and Investments Board (SIB), a private company established in 1986 to act as the regulatory authority at the head of the new regulatory framework, as the Delegated Authority if it fulfilled certain specified conditions. Lloyd's, among other institutions, was specifically exempted from the terms of the bill, and discussion of the possible need for protection of Lloyd's investors, comparable to that to be provided by the SIB, was a factor in the setting up of the Committee during the passage of the bill. The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Patrick Neill QC, vice-chancellor of Oxford University, had as its terms of reference to consider whether the regulatory arrangements being established at Lloyd's under the 1982 Lloyd's Act provided protection for the interests of members of Lloyd's comparable to that proposed for investors under the Financial Services Bill. It looked at nine particular areas of Lloyd's regulatory arrangements, seeking from the public comment or evidence as to whether: satisfactory arrangements had been established for judging the fitness of Lloyd's underwriting agents the amount of information supplied to prospective Names was sufficient to enable them to make informed judgments about the consequences of membership of Lloyd's and about the performance of different syndicates in advising prospective Names about the consequences of membership sufficient account was taken of their personal circumstances all problems of potential or actual conflict of interest were adequately covered by the existing arrangements the accounting and record-keeping requirements for Lloyd's syndicates were sufficiently stringent it was necessary or desirable to establish some means of compensating Names in the event of serious underwriting losses which arise otherwise than from the normally accepted risks of the business proper arrangements existed and were duly implemented to ensure that action was, where necessary, initiated and pursued against offenders within the community of Lloyd's the byelaws, regulations and codes of practice so far published were adequate the present constitution of Lloyd's was, in principle and practice, adequate and effective in overseeing the operation of the Lloyd's market and in protecting the interests of Names The Committee reported in December of the same year with recommendations involving changes in Lloyd's rules or the constitutional framework within which they were made. The Report was published in January 1987.
This series consists of papers of Sir Harry B Shackleton relating to his terms of office as Wool Controller from 1939-1949 and as Wool Controller-Designate from 1951-1957. Also included are Wool Control price lists for the southern hemisphere wool clip during the Second World War. Administrative history: In July 1937 the Board of Trade requested the Wool Textile Delegation, representing the wool textile industry, to prepare a control scheme for the industry in time of war. A scheme was developed in detail and full control of the industry was assumed on 4 September 1939. The main objects of the control were to ensure adequate wool supplies for the needs of the armed forces and the essential civil requirements of the British Commonwealth and its allies (and to secure production of the various products required), to deny supplies to the enemy, to assist the economies of the Dominions by guaranteeing a market for exportable surpluses of wool, and to regulate consumption and control prices in accordance with any general plan for the whole United Kingdom economy. The control lasted until 1949. In 1951 Sir Harry B Shackleton, Wool Controller 1939-1949, was invited by the Government to become Wool Controller-Designate, and entrusted with the preparation of a scheme for control of wool in the event of war, and to set up a shadow organisation of members of the industry to administer the Control if it became operative. The scheme was complete when in 1957 Shackleton was advised by the Government that in their general review of the Defence Plan they had decided that all work should cease on the preparation of schemes for raw material and production controls.
Minute books of the Land Values Reference Committee, together with registers of proceedings, specimen case files and a precedent book kept by the Committee's Secretary. Administrative history: The Land Values Reference Committee for England and Wales (consisting of the Lord Chief Justice of England, the Master of the Rolls and the President of the Surveyors' Institution) was established by the Finance (1909-1910) Act 1910 to regulate procedure in appeals made against assessments of land values and duties imposed by that Act; and a panel of persons was appointed by the Committee to act as referees for the purpose of determining such appeals. The Defence of the Realm (Acquisition of Land) Act 1916 provided for the appointment by the Reference Committee of a panel of referees to determine questions of compensation and land purchase prices to be paid under the Act. The Acquisition of Land (Assessment of Compensation) Act 1919 provided for the appointment by the Reference Committee of a panel of official arbitrators, to determine, in accordance with rules made by the Committee, disputes over compensation and rent apportionment in respect of land compulsorily acquired for public purposes. By the Law of Property Act 1925 these official arbitrators were empowered (under rules to be made by the Reference Committee) to discharge or modify restrictive covenants affecting land and to determine related questions of compensation. From 1941 to 1945 under the War Damage Acts, 1941 and 1943, an appeal lay from a determination of the War Damage Commission to one of the panel of referees appointed under the Finance (1909-1910) Act 1910 in accordance with rules made by the Reference Committee. The War Damage (Valuation Appeals) Act 1945, however, provided that such appeals should in future lie to the War Damage (Valuation Appeals) Panel, appointed by the Lord Chancellor. The Land Values Reference Committee ceased to exist when the Lands Tribunal took over the work of all these panels.
Selected registered files of the Treasury Solicitor relating to activities on behalf of the Office of Works and its successors, including the Ministry of Works and Buildings, the Ministry of Works and Planning, the Ministry of Works, and the Ministry of Public Building and Works. Most of the papers fall within the period 1900-1955. The files concern the legal aspects of a broad range of building-related topics, including the construction, acquisition, maintenance and equipping of government buildings at home and overseas; and the co-ordination and development of policy in relation to civil building from 1940 onwards. The principal subjects that occur are ancient monuments and historic buildings, and legislation concerning them, public buildings, royal parks, civil building control, consulates and public buildings overseas, Town and Country Planning Acts, compulsory purchase, regulation of the brick industry, sale of former government flax factories, Crown rights, wartime measures, including requisitioning of factories and property. Arrangement: TS 59 includes files from two record series. The earliest papers ( TS 59/1 -23) show signs of an annual registration system though this may be the result of a later re-registration. From TS 59/24 onwards the files are numbered in a simple consecutive series that continues until the end of the series. The files are in rough chronological order and there is evidence of re-registration. This second series was terminated in 1955, but papers continued to be added to existing files and new part-files were also created. In the 1940s the series prefix changed from 'WORKS' to 'WORKS 1', though this was purely cosmetic and did not affect the numbering sequence.
Establishment files of the Department of Education and Science and predecessors illustrating the way in which the education departments applied Treasury regulations and Civil Service Commission rules to the execution of their responsibilities. There is a complete record from 1851 to 1921 of correspondence between the Education Department (later the Board of Education) and the Treasury on all matters for which the authority of the latter department was required. The responsibilities of the education departments covered in the papers include appointment, pay, promotion, grading, general conditions of service, and superannuation of staff; in the conduct of its financial responsibilities; in the organisation of its internal structure and performance of its duties; in the handling of related matters such as teachers' salaries; in the recruitment of HM Inspectors and their functions relating to the education of children of British service and civilian families overseas. The series includes minutes of Departmental Whitley Councils for both the Darlington and London offices of the department. The series includes some nineteenth century material relating to establishment matters of the Education Department and the Science and the Art Department of the Privy Council. The series also includes material which would otherwise be found elsewhere in ED amongst the Records of the Committee of the Privy Council on Education. In addition there are papers relating to the administration of the Royal College of Arts, including staffing and accommodation matters and reports of committees on reorganisation and the establishment of the research councils; and to various committees and commissions set up by the department before the Second World War. Although the files in this series were not formally registered, incoming papers and the replies, where applicable, were given a reference. Papers on the same subject, regardless of the Y reference number, were then filed together and each file was allocated to a subject 'volume'.
Board of Education papers relating to general subjects concerned with elementary education. This series of files is associated with the consideration and formation of the department's policy under various Acts and Regulations; it also takes in aspects of procedure and organisation. The Second World War gave rise to a considerable volume of papers on new subjects. These describe arrangements made for the education of foreign refugee children, wartime employment of schoolchildren, and evacuation and reception arrangements. Problems confronting teachers are also recorded. Administrative difficulties included the law of school attendance, rearrangement of holidays, inspection, curricula, cultural provision (music and the arts) and wider issues of education reform and postwar policy. The papers reveal measures taken to ensure the supply of essential school accommodation (including emergency provision for children of munition workers) and of scholastic equipment - with the complication of the application of the purchase tax. The files up to 1921 are the surviving residue of a former unnumbered series. A number of these files contain indexes. In 1921 a numbered series was introduced. Papers concerned with the administration of pre-1921 Education Acts on general subjects relating to elementary education were placed on files identified by descriptive titles. The system of registration keys subject headings to a block of consecutive numbers. This numbered series absorbed earlier papers from the 'unnumbered' series wherever comparable provisions in earlier Acts enabled a continuity of subject matter to be maintained. The current numbered series of General files relating to elementary education expands by the creation of new files in respect of additional educational provisions arising from further Education Acts. Arrangement: The residue of pre 1921 papers is listed alphabetically under original subject headings. The numbered series is also in alphabetical order.
Files dealing with the Board of Educations's examination and review of arrangements made by local authorities, including those in the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, to give financial assistance, by means of scholarships and remission of fees, to students undertaking courses of secondary or further education. The series also contains minutes and correspondence leading to the approval of schemes of graduated assistance as well as reports, scholarship handbook and references to fees in evening institutes. From 1936 to 1944 only files containing pre-1936 action or containing revised schemes have been preserved, and the period 1945 to 1955 is represented by four specimen files. Administrative history: As a consequence of the financial crisis of 1931, the Board of Education was required to examine the arrangements made by local education authorities to give assistance by means of scholarships and remission of fees, to students undertaking courses of secondary or further education. The purpose was to obtain information as to the nature and extent of the scheme administered by education authorities for providing aid to students in schools, institutes and colleges and to consider the manner by which economies could be effected and the demand upon public moneys reduced. The board's review of arrangements made under the Regulations for Further Education brought into focus the lack of uniformity among the various schemes which were in operation throughout the country and indicated the need to introduce some degree of consistency in the general administration. As a means of economy without damage to the structure of further education, a system of graduated scales of fees for full time students was recommended, providing some measure of uniformity and a means of increasing the income from fees by the assessment of a student's financial circumstances to determine whether a need existed for total or partial remission of fees. Arrangement: Alphabetically in county order for England and Wales, later files are arranged alphabetically in county and county borough order.
This series is mainly composed of papers of the Home Office Gas Cylinders and Containers Committee (1946-1973), many of which are registered files from the Home Office Explosives Inspectorate XB series. Consists of minutes and papers of meetings, correspondence, and files containing reports and tests considered by the Committee. Also included are papers inherited by the committee, which comprise minutes and papers of the earlier Gas Cylinders and Containers Committee (1935-1946) (which operated under the auspices of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research) and documents relating to its dissolution, a number of annual reports of HM Inspector of Explosives for various years from 1913 to 1974, and an index to his reports, 1876-1910. Administrative history: The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) set up the first Gas Cylinders and Containers Committee in 1935. Its terms of reference included the consideration of reports produced by the Gas Cylinders Research Committee and the Welded Containers Committee of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Reseach and other matters referred to it by the department in the light of related scientific developments and changes in industrial practice. The committee's primary duty was the supervision of research work on behalf of the Home Office, and the framing of regulations for the manufacture and use of cylinders and containers for the transport of gases. Following a review of DSIR research committees in 1945, the Gas Cylinders and Containers Committee was re-constituted in February 1946 as an advisory body appointed by the home secretary. Until its abolition, the committee maintained a close liaison with the Metallurgy Department of the National Physical Laboratory. The committee operated under the control of the Explosives Department (later Explosives Inspectorate) of the Home Office General Department until 1964, when the Explosives Inspectorate became a branch of the Fire Department. The committee had ceased to function by the time of the transfer of responsibilities from the Home Office to the newly-created Health and Safety Commission in 1975.
Registered files of the Board of Education, University Branch, and Ministry of Education, Teachers Branch relating to Teachers Joint Examination Boards. The files contain policy material connected with the formation of individual boards, approved syllabuses of instruction and regulations for the examinations as approved by the Ministry/Board of Education, and include reports on the standard of examinations and analyses of results. Administrative history: Teacher training college authorities were invited by the Board of Education to form regional groups associated with local universities, for the establishment of Joint Examination Boards to devise and conduct the final examination for students in academic subjects. The examination, which qualified students for recognition as certificated teachers, was previously conducted by the Board of Education who continued to be responsible for testing the capacity of students in practical teaching. The decision, foreshadowed in circular 1372 dated 11 January 1925, was based on the recommendations of the Departmental Committee on the Training of Teachers for Public Elementary Schools 1925, as a further development in the co-operation of universities with training colleges. It gave the colleges a greater measure of autonomy, with the opportunity to relate the examination more closely to the needs of particular colleges, or groups of colleges than was possible under a single authority. Initially five joint-boards held examinations in 1929, the remaining boards becoming operative in 1930 and continuing until their responsibilities were progressively handed over to the newly appointed Area Training Organisations (Institutes of Education), transference being completed by 1950. The Board of Education, under Circular 1408 dated 20 August 1930, appointed a Central Advisory Committee for the Certification of Teachers consisting of representatives of the various bodies concerned with the training and recognition of teachers, to maintain a general survey over the examinations conducted by the joint boards and to advise the Board of Education upon questions arising thereon. Arrangement: Alphabetical order of names of joint boards.
The series of Metropolitan Police Commissioner's miscellanea includes: register of manning returns, complaints by members of the public, estimates, office regulations, Daily Police Reports, register of officers' warrant numbers, attestation ledgers, certificate of service records, register of widows' pensions, etc, criminal return book, a precedent book, papers relating to the Commissioner's Office and his annual reports from 1926 to 1981, handbooks and manuals, arrangements for the coronations of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth II, state weddings and funerals, posters and publicity material, war diaries, Metropolitan Police lists, minutes of the Metropolitan Police New Headquarters Steering Committee, and the report of the 1903 committee on Metropolitan Police accommodation. The series contains material descriptive of police personnel: Numerical registers (MEPO 4/31-32) (1829-1830) give heights; Alphabetical registers (MEPO 4/333-338) (1830-1857 and 1878-1933) give names and addresses of referees; Registers of leavers (MEPO 4/339-351) (1889-1947) give name, warrant number, rank, and date of joining and leaving. Attestation ledgers (MEPO 4/352-360) (1869-1958) give signatures of the recruit and a witness; Certificates of service (MEPO 4/361-477) (1889-1909) give a physical description, date of birth, trade, marital status, residence, number of children, name and place of last employer, previous public service, surgeon's certificate, postings to divisions, dates of promotion or demotion and cause of removal. PLEASE NOTE: Some records within this series are available to download free of charge as part of the Digital Microfilm project. Note: The descriptions of the Registers of leavers in MEPO 4/339-351 have been catalogued by name, using the transcriptions provided by a reader Barnaby Palmer, who initially placed it on Your Archives and has kindly agreed to its re-use (February 2013).
From 1920 to 1942 these are mainly records of the Establishment Division of the Mines Department and subsequently of the Establishments Division of the Ministries of Fuel and Power and of Power. Included in the series are records of the Industrial Department of the Home Office concerning the safety and welfare of the mine workers, and certain Board of Trade papers relating to the coal, gas, petroleum and electricity industries, and papers relating to those bodies' structure and functions, and papers covering staffing, pay, trade union matters and to departmental and other committees. Some later files are also concerned with the post-war reorganisation of the coal, gas, electricity, and iron and steel industries, their relations with various government departments and relevant staff superannuation schemes. Arrangement: POWE 10/1 -297 are arranged by 13 numbered subjects. POWE 10/298 onwards are arranged by former reference. The 13 numbered subjects of POWE 10/1 -297 are: 1. Accounts and Estimates: Departmental Estimates Accounts and Accounting Payment of Fees 2. Board for Mining Examinations (Mining Qualifications Board) 3. Departmental Organisation, Staffing and Functions: General questions Petroleum Organisation Electricity Commission Coal Valuation Boards Regional Coal Organisation 4. Emergency Regulations 5. Gallantry Awards 6. Miners' Welfare Commission Miners' Welfare Fund Miners' Welfare National Scholarship Scheme Miners' Welfare Committee and Commission 7. Mines Inspectorate 8. National Coal Board (prior to nationalisation) 9. Patents: Procedure for Assignment 10. Plans of Abandoned Mines 11. Public Boards, Committees and Commissions. Electricity Commission Departmental and other Committees Committees of Investigation; Coal Act, 1930 12. Safety in Mines Research Board (Safety in Mines Research Establishment) 13. Superannuation
The series is concerned with statutory and voluntary methods of improving the safety of agricultural workers, and others (e.g. consumers and wildlife) who might be endangered by dangerous farming practices, and in particular pesticides. From 1966 the SW series being principally concerned with pesticides safety matters. Subjects include: The implementation of the Agriculture (Poisonous Substances) Act 1952 and the Agriculture (Safety, Health and Welfare Provisions) Act 1956; the preparation and application of Safety Regulations under these Acts; and the organisation, training and supervision of the regional Safety Inspectorate (until 1962 part of the Safety and Wages Inspectorate). Administration and amendment of various voluntary safety schemes with agricultural chemicals manufacturers etc., notably the Pesticides Safety Precautions Scheme (1957-1962 the Notification of Pesticides Scheme) and the Agricultural Chemicals Approval Scheme (until 1960 the Crop Protection Products Approval Scheme). Involvement in the work of the inter-departmental Advisory Committee on Poisonous Substances used in Agriculture and Food Storage (from 1964 the Advisory Committee on Pesticides and Other Toxic Chemicals), its Scientific Sub-Committee, Veterinary Products Panel, and other panels and working parties. Collection of farm accident information and statistics; and safety propaganda. Liaison and co-operation with other interested UK and European bodies. Investigation of risks to wildlife. Includes re-registered (pre-1956) papers from the SLY series (a predecessor series to SW), which is in MAF 47 and MAF 228. Arrangement: The series is arranged in SW reference order within these accessions: MAF 284/1 -272, MAF 284/273 -517, MAF 284/518
Printed Defence Council Instructions (DCI's) for the Royal Navy, other than books of regulations and manuals, which had general applications to ships, establishments and personnel. They replaced Admiralty Fleet Orders (AFO's). The series includes DCIs (General) which were distributed throughout the three services. Subject indexes to the DCIs are included in the series. Arrangement: Under the post 1964 system DCIs were issued separately for each service but were all divided into parts as below Part I Administrative and General Part II Service Personnel Part III Training and Operational Part IV Stores, Equipment and Servicing Part IV Stores, Equipment and Servicing Part V Books, Stationery and Correspondence Part VI Civilian Personnel Part VII Confidential Part VIII Miscellaneous Under this system the following AFOs were not issued in the DCI (RN) series but were promulgated as follows: 'A' Series. 'Approved Alterations and Additions to RN Ships and Vessels', continued to be issued with and issue number prefixed by the letter 'A' i.e. A.1/64 'S' Series. This series was known as ' RN Signal Orders' and was issued in the 'S', 'SC' and 'SPC' series as hitherto. The term 'AFO' was dropped but otherwise they appeared as before. 'P' Series. (Amendments to books). The non-confidential series continued to be issued as previously except that the number was prefixed 'P' only and no longer bore the letters 'AFO'. The confidential series bore a series of numbers prefixed 'P(C)'. In addition both series were entitled 'RN Book Amendment Series'. Note: A detailed description of the application of the new system within the Royal Navy will be found at AFO 465 of 1964 (ADM 182/272).:
Development plans, and amendments thereto, of towns, counties and designated development areas, submitted by local planning authorities to the ministry under the provisions of the Town and Country Planning Act 1947. The series also includes written statements of intended developments and the ministry's instruments of approval. Administrative history: The Town and Country Planning Act 1947 required every local planning authority to undertake a survey of their area and submit to the Minister a report of the survey, a county or town map showing the location of various sectors of land use and a programme map indicating the stages by which any development should be carried out. Land designated as subject to compulsory acquisition was defined on a designation map, or on a comprehensive development map. If acquisition did not take place within twelve years (eight for agricultural land) the designation lapsed. The main purpose of development plans was to guide developers and others concerned with the use of land, and regulate the development of land and its acquisition, development and disposal by local authorities. Unlike planning schemes made under earlier planning Acts, plans under the 1947 Act did not themselves confer any development rights and planning permission still had to be obtained. When a development plan was submitted to the Minister for confirmation the prescribed notice had to be published in the London Gazette and at least one local paper. Any objections would then be heard at either a public inquiry or a private hearing held by the Minister. At least once in every five years, the local planning authority was required to carry out a fresh survey and submit a report, together with any proposed alterations, to the Minister.
General and local authority files relating to burials and cremations, burial ground extensions and closing orders, fees and regulations, loan consents, reports of burial ground inspectors, etc. Most of the documents are files of the Ministry of Health, but there are also some of the Home Office and the Local Government Board. Administrative history: In 1900 many of the functions of the Home Office relating to the administration of burial grounds and approval of interment fees under general acts were transferred to the board by statute. The home secretary retained responsibility for the approval of interment fees under local acts. Treasury approval was necessary for loans, mortgages or sales in connection with burial grounds, but this power was transferred to the board in respect of municipal corporations in 1888 and other authorities in 1906. The board did not appoint a Burial Grounds Inspectorate as the home secretary had done, the work being entrusted to the Engineering Inspectorate. The Burial Acts were originally the concern of the Secretary of State (Home Office): The Burial Acts of 1852 and 1853 provided for the establishment by Vestries of Burial Boards to make further provision for the burial of the dead; the Burial Act, 1900 consolidated many of the complex statutes on the administration of burial places and transferred the power of the Secretary of State to the Local Government Board. Consents to loans and other transactions under the Burial Acts were originally given by the Treasury, but under the Local Authority (Treasury Powers) Act 1906 such consents were thereafter granted by the Local Government Board.
Papers of Francis Raymond, 1st Baron Evershed, as chairman of the Historical Manuscripts Commission, 1937 to 1960 (including some papers of his predecessor as chairman, Lord Greene); as chairman of the Central Price Regulation Committee, 1940 to 1942; as Ministry of Fuel and Power Regional Controller for the North Midland Region, 1943 to 1945; as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry of Textile Machinery, 1944 to 1947; as chairman of the Committee of Investigation into Wages in the Port Transport Industry, 1938 to 1945; as chairman of a Court of Inquiry into a Dispute in London Docks, 1954 to 1955; and papers relating to his report on the Internal Organisation of Naval Aviation, 1944 to 1945. Administrative history: Francis Raymond Evershed, created 1st Baron Evershed of Stapenhill in 1956, was born 8th August 1899. He was called to the bar at Lincoln's Inn in 1923, and was a Judge (Chancery Division) and High Court Justice from 1944-1947. He became a Privy Councillor in 1947. He was a Lord Justice of Appeal from 1947 until 1949, when he became Master of the Rolls and both a member and Chairman of the Royal Commission on Historical Manuscripts. On his appointment as a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary in 1962, he ceased to be Master of the Rolls and Chairman of the Commission but continued as a member of the Commission until his death on 3rd October, 1966. He was a United Kingdom member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague from 1950 onwards. In 1953 he was made Freeman of the City of London.
This series contains: regulations and orders, 1803 to 1908, relating to the administration of the Duke of York's Royal Military School, the Royal Military Asylum for Children of Soldiers of the Regular Army, and of the Royal Hibernian Military School minutes of the Commissioners of the Royal Military Asylum, 1801 to 1907 minutes of General Board meetings of the Commissioners of the Royal Military School, 1907 to 1953 registers of admissions and discharges of children to and from the Royal Military Asylum, 1803 to 1923, a record of admission to the Royal Military School, 1906 to 1956, and an index of admissions to the Royal Hibernian Military School, 1803 to 1919 letter books and accounts, etc. Administrative history: Provision of education for soldiers and their children was provided at regimental schools, which began to be established in the second half of the eighteenth century. A Corps of Army Schoolmasters was formed in 1846. On 11 June 1920 this was replaced by the Army Education Corps, which in 1946 became the Royal Army Education Corps. Alongside the regimental schools there were two boarding schools for children of serving or deceased officers. These were the Royal Hibernian Military School, Dublin, founded in 1769 for children and orphans of soldiers on the Irish establishment; and the Royal Military Asylum for Children of Soldiers of the Regular Army, established at Chelsea in 1801 on the initiative of the Duke of York. In 1892 the latter was renamed the Duke of York's Royal Military School, and in 1909 it moved to Dover. In 1922 the Royal Hibernian School moved to Shorncliffe, and in 1924 it was merged with the Duke of York's School.
This series contains an incomplete set of minutes from the various regional building committees, and their sub-committees, established at the end of the Second World War to regulate and control the national building and civil engineering programme. Administrative history: Following the end of the Second World War in 1945, building licensing continued until 1954. Priority for labour and materials was determined by a headquarters Building Committee and regional building committees under Ministry of Works chairmanship and containing representatives of the Ministries of Health, Labour and Supply and of the Board of Trade; from October 1946 they also included representatives of the Ministry of Town and Country Planning. These bodies remained in existence when building licensing came to an end but ceased to meet regularly. Control of building material prices was also maintained; from 1947 to 1952 a Building Materials Prices Committee kept prices under review and dealt with applications for increases. Most of the advisory and consultative bodies representing the building industries remained in being after the war and continued after 1954. Official membership of the regional building committees consisted of representatives from the Ministry of Works (Chairman), Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labour, Board of Trade and Ministry of Supply. Regional representatives of other departments and bodies, particularly the War Damage Commission, were invited to attend when matters of concern to them were discussed. In October 1946 a representative of the Ministry of Town and Country Planning was added to each committee. A parent committee was established in London to act as a court of appeal and overall co-ordinator. When building licensing was abolished in November 1954 the committees were not officially wound up but ceased to meet regularly. Sets of minutes, from a variety of sources, have been assembled to form this series which nevertheless remains incomplete.
This series comprises files containing information relating to specific aerodromes in the British Isles. Information was distributed by means of a formal briefing service and by such publications as the Air Pilot and Notices to Airmen (NOTAMS). The registered files in this series were raised in the Ministry of Aviation, although a few files contain papers originating in the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, and comprise a selection relating to well-known airports. The papers mainly concern the issue of NOTAMS and of amendments to Air Pilot. AVIA 75/1-33 were transferred from DR 4/273-305. Administrative history: The Aeronautical Information Service (AIS) formed part of the Aviation Control and Navigation Operations Directorate (ANCO) of the Ministry of Aviation and its functions were to collect, record and distribute information on aerodromes, telecommunications facilities and navigational hazards, and to formulate ensuing procedures and regulations in the United Kingdom. It also provided briefs and follow-up action on overseas aeronautical information from the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). The AIS was transferred to the Board of Trade in January 1967, and subsequently to the Department of Trade and Industry in 1970 and the Civil Aviation Authority in 1972 In 1963, the AIS became part of the new Directorate of Control (Operations) which transferred intact to the Board of Trade (Controllerate of National Air Traffic Control Services) in 1967. When the Civil Aviation Authority was formed in 1972, the AIS became part of its National Air Traffic Services (NATS), with a headquarters located at Control Tower Building, London Heathrow Airport. Under NATS, the functions were formally stated: to collect, collate, edit and disseminate aeronautical information necessary for the safety and efficiency of air navigation to interested parties, including the air traffic control service, aircrew, airline operators and other aviation organisations; to receive post-flight information.
Drawings and files of the Utility Furniture Scheme and some specifications of various pieces of utility furniture. Administrative history: Prior to the Second World War, the furniture industry was well established and was expanding fairly rapidly. In 1940, however, with the war in its first year, the unrestricted allocation of timber for civilian furniture was discontinued. A Timber Supplies Committee was set up to examine the question of replacing furniture damaged through bombing. Through the Committee a small allocation was made for the manufacture of specified articles only. In October 1941, under the Limitation of Supplies Orders, it was estimated that only one-sixth of the total supply of timber was being channelled into the civilian sector. By 1 September 1942 the manufacture of civilian furniture was prohibited, except under licence. Licences would be granted only for the production of utility goods. The Utility Furniture Scheme was introduced by the Board of Trade at the end of 1942. Under this scheme only the poorest quality wood was permitted in the making civilian furniture. Other restrictions included the introduction of standard designs, the limitation of supply to priority series, and the zoning of supply to save on transport. The Board of Trade selected the firms to make utility furniture, and allocated production programmes to them, together with the raw materials. The Board of Trade also set up eleven regions in Great Britain, each Regional Office to deal with all questions relating to utility furniture. A Utility Mark was designated for all such furniture. These regulations remained in force until 1 March 1949 when the Board of Trade abolished the Scheme under the Utility Furniture (Buying Permits) (Revocation) Order, 1949 (S.I. 1949 No.258).
Files of the Board of Education Technical Branch relating to the administration of facilities for physical training and recreation provided by Local Education Authorities. The papers record the provision made by Local Education Authorities of community centres, playing fields, swimming baths, recreative centres, and course, during the brief periods of extended facilities referred to below. Administrative history: Local Education Authorities were empowered under s. 17 of the Education Act, 1918, re-enacted as Section 86 of the Education Act, 1921 (subsequently re-enacted as Section 53 of the Education Act, 1944), to make provision for the social and physical training of children, young persons, and persons over the age of 18, in attendance at an educational institution. Courses of training provided under the Local Education Authority's arrangements for further education were subject to the current Regulations for Further Education in regard to attendance, inspection, organisation, and registration. Facilities under s. 86 of the Education Act, 1921, were subsequently extended to young persons and adults not in full time attendance at schools or educational institutions; the terms of s. 6 of the Physical Training and Recreation Act, 1937, referred to 'persons of whatever age'. These facilities ceased in 1940 with the suspension of the Physical Training and Recreation Act, 1937, for the duration of the war. Post-war provision reverted, so far as this department is concerned, with the repeal of Section 6 of the Physical Training and Recreation Act, 1937, by the Education Act, 1944, to those attendance at educational institutions. Arrangement: Alphabetical in county and county borough order for England and Wales.
This series contains General Division subject files, which were created from 1961 to deal with the organisation and management of the Charity Commission and matters affecting charities generally. The arrival of CP Hill on secondment from the Home Office to the Charity Commission to pilot the 1960 Charities Bill brought with it a number of that department's records. These do not seem to have been returned, presumably because he subsequently became the Chief Charity Commissioner rather than returning to the Home Office. The files concerned were subsequently treated as Charity Commission files, being re-registered into this series, and accounting for the earlier opening dates of some pieces. The files comprise a large amount of work undertaken by individual Commissioners. Internal minutes tagged to the front of the file jackets provide a commentary on the correspondence tagged in the back. The latter often entailed duplication from case files and Board proceedings, as well as original material unique to this series. Policy was often made as it was recorded on these files and in the 1970s and 1980s used for staff information and leaflets to guide trustees. Issues were often discussed by formal minute between lawyers from first principles and these constantly referred back to in the discussion. Specific subjects covered include legislation and regulations relating to charities and legislation promoted by other bodies, the jurisdiction, structure and management of the Charity Commission, charitable status and registration, trustee powers and duties, protection of charitable property and authorisation of charities' disposal of interest in land, the promotion of effective use of charitable resources, inquiries and investigations by the Charity Commission and points of law or policy. Administrative history: The General Department dealt with all policy matters affecting the Charity Commission including administration.
These records relate to national infrastructure projects, including the M25 and the Dartford Crossing, and related policy development. The records, in the main, are Assistant Secretary Papers. Administrative history: The Tolls and Signs Division was created in 1986, under the Highways Policy and Programme, drawing together elements of the then Traffic and Local Division and the tolls element of the Highways Division. The responsibilities of the new division were policy on tolled estuarial crossings, directional traffic signs, traffic signs regulations and co-ordination of work on the completion of the M25. In 1988 responsibilities for traffic signs were transferred to Roads Engineering and the newly entitled Tolls and Dartford Crossing Division was given responsibility for the provision of a larger crossing at Dartford. By 1989 responsibilities were expanded to include the Second Severn Cross and privately funded highways. The departmental responsibility for these records is defined as follows: Department of Transport: 1986-1987: Department of Transport: Highways, Policy and Programme: Tolls and Signs Division. 1988: Department of Transport: Highways, Policy and Programme: Tolls and Dartford Crossing Division. 1989: Department of Transport: Highways, Policy and Programme: Tolled Crossings Division. 1990: Department of Transport: Highways, Policy and Porgramme: Tolled Roads. 1991: Department of Transport: Highways, Policy and Programme: Tolled Roads and Crossings. 1992-1994: Department of Transport: Highways, Policy and Resources: Tolled Roads and Crossings. 1995-1996: Department of Transport: National Roads Policy: Tolled Roads and Crossings. Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions: 1997: Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions: Roads and Local Transport Policy Directorate: National Roads Policy: Tolling and Private Finance Division. 1998: Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions: Planning, Roads and Local Transport Group: National Roads Policy: Tolling and Private Finance Division. Arrangement: These records are arranged in chronological and prefix order
This series consists largely of indentures made between Richard Ellis, deputy of Edward Horsey, captain of the Isle of Wight and the Crown's patentee; vintners and other sellers of wine; and local justices of the peace or, in the case of cities and boroughs corporate, the mayor and at least one alderman. The indentures discharge sellers of wine from penalties incurred as a result of their breach of a statute of 1553, in return for a monetary composition, of which half was payable to Horsey and half to the Crown. The indentures are signed and sealed by all the parties. The indentures include the names and styles of those offending, their place of residence, the names of the justices or town officers, the amount of wine sold in a manner contrary to statute, and the amount of the fine. The condition of the seals attached to these indentures is variable. The series also includes a number of prosecutions under the statute. These are in the form of informations, and are strays from the files of Bille ( E 207 ). Many were brought by Hugh Bonell of the parish of St Clements, London, who appears to have been a professional informer. Administrative history: By letters patent of 23 April 1570 Elizabeth I licensed Edward Horsey, captain of the Isle of Wight, to reach agreement with offenders against statutes regulating the vending of wine, the primary offences being defined as retailing wine without licence, or selling it at greater prices than those allowed by statute. For both, the offender incurred a substantial penalty.
This series contains transcripts of proceedings for both parts of the Inquiry, together with witness statements and other core documents. Core documents are those upon which witnesses were cross-examined and from which Lord Cullen drew his conclusions and made his recommendations. An index to these documents in both paper and electronic form is included in the series. Administrative history: On 5 October 1999 at 8.11 am, a fatal rail collision occurred outside Paddington Station. The collision occurred when the 8.06 am Thames Trains Paddington to Bedwyn service and a London-bound First Great Western 125 express train, running from Cheltenham to Paddington, collided at the Ladbroke Grove Junction. Lord Cullen was appointed to chair the Ladbroke Grove Rail Inquiry by the Health and Safety Commission with the consent of the Deputy Prime Minister on 8 October 1999. Lord Cullen decided to divide the Inquiry into two parts. Part 1 inquired into the crash and Part 2 inquired into the general question of how safety on the railways is managed and regulated. Between Parts 1 and 2 another, separate inquiry (the'Joint Inquiry&#34) inquired into factors common to the crashes at Ladbroke Grove and Southall, including train protection systems and signals passed at danger. The Joint Inquiry was chaired jointly by Lord Cullen and Professor Uff (who chaired the inquiry into the crash at Southall). The public hearings for Part 1 began on 10 May 2000 and were completed on 28 September 2000. The public hearings for Part 2 began on Monday 30 October 2000 and were completed on the 20 December 2000. The Health and Safety Commission (HSC) published Lord Cullen's report on Part 1 of the Inquiry on 19 June 2001 and the report on Part 2 of the Inquiry on 20 September 2001.
Minute books used by Metroplitan Gas referees. Administrative history: The Metropolitan Gas Referees were originally appointed by the Board of Trade under the City of London Gas Act, 1868. Under this, and subsequent Acts, up to 1920 their duties were concerned only with gas supplied by the London gas undertakings and covered the prescribing and certification of the testing places provided by each undertaking (whether a company or a local authority), the prescribing of methods to be adopted for testing and recording the illuminating power (superseded from 1914 onwards by calorific value standards), purity and pressure of gas, to specify the number of times of testing, and to certify the maximum amount of impurity with which the gas could be charged. The Gas Regulation Act, 1920 provided for three persons to be appointed by the Board of Trade to act as Gas Referees, whose duties covered England, Scotland and Wales; these were to prescribe the time when, the place where, and the method by which the gas was to be tested. The 1920 Act, and subsequent Acts made by the Board of Trade, also provided that the results of tests made by each appointed Gas Examiner should be made available to the public and that the gas undertaking should supply gas of a declared calorific value. The office of the Gas Referees was abolished by the Gas Undertakings Act, 1934 and their functions transferred to the Board of Trade (subsequently, in 1942, to the Ministry of Fuel and Power, now the Ministry of Power) and performed by the Gas Testing Branch. Arrangement: Arranged chronologically.
Correspondence, minutes and statistics of the Exchange Control Medical Advisory Committee. Also correspondence, mainly with the Treasury and British Medical Association, relating to the provision of foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad. Administrative history: From the late 1940's, the Treasury received applications from British people wishing to travel abroad, outside the Sterling Area, for a form of medical treatment known as health travel. These applications were made under the Defence (Finance) Regulations and the Exchange Control Act 1947. Tuberculosis (TB) remained a life threatening disease in the post war years. The clean air of Switzerland was felt by many to aid recovery, and so Switzerland became a popular destination for people suffering from TB and other diseases, but the government became concerned that some people might use the opportunity for such health travel as an excuse for an extended foreign holiday. The Exchange Control Advisory Committee was set up under Sir Robert Young in 1947 in order to provide a medical guidance that would henceforth underpin health travel arrangements (the Committee was mostly, although not entirely, concerned with those people suffering from TB). It established the following criteria: The period of treatment was normally up to three months; The patient's UK doctor was required to confirm and to prove that the treatment was essential and that loss of life could follow if the treatment was not carried out; Medical evidence was to be submitted to the committee. If a decision was made that treatment abroad was required, then two members of the committee would issue a certificate to the patient's doctor for submission to a bank to apply for foreign exchange for the patient's treatment. Doctors treating the patient abroad were required to verify that the treatment was helping the patient's recovery. The committee was wound up on 31 March 1955. Thereafter health travel applications were dealt with by individual banks according to government policy. Health travel was abolished in 1966.
This series contains a selection, on a geographical basis, of the Inspectors' reports on registrars and superintendents' assistants. They give details of performance, attitudes, other employment, accounts, examination of registers and the strongrooms, hours of attendance, training needs and general comments. The areas from which a selection has been taken are: Axbridge, Basingstoke, Burton-upon-Trent, Chelsea, Chepstow, Coventry, Falmouth, Leeds, Lewisham, Morpeth, Norwich, Nottingham, Oswestry, Rugby and Weston-Super-Mare. Administrative history: The Registration Division is responsible for the administration of the marriage and registration service. Its functions are to correct errors in completed entries of births, deaths and marriages, re-registration, overseas registration, revision of the handbook, preparation of GRO circulars, registration of adoptions, certificate production, appointment of registration officers, schemes for local organisation of registration service, collection and analysis of statistics, examination of work of local registration officers, general administration of Marriage Acts, and general administration of laws on births, deaths and still-births. Registration officers (registrars) are independent statutory officers appointed and paid by local authorities but have no legal employer. For certain purposes (e.g. superannuation), registrars are deemed to be employees of their local authority. The registrar's functions however are laid down in Acts of Parliament and regulations made under these acts. In exercising these functions he is subject to such instructions and directions as the Registrar General may give. Arrangement: The reports are arranged alphabetically by area, and chronologically within area.
This series contains records of participation by the Air Registration Board and the Civil Aviation Authority in the International Civil Aviation Organisation and its predecessor the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation, concerning the development and application of international standards and practices in air transport. It includes meeting minutes and papers and briefs to the UK representative to the organisation. Administrative history: The development of the aeroplane as a major instrument of transport brought international problems such as the co-ordination of techniques and laws and the dissemination of technical and economic information which were far beyond the ability of individual governments to solve. There were other concerns with regard to the legal and economic conflicts that might come with peacetime flying across national borders, and the maintenance of existing navigation facilities. In 1944 a meeting was held in Chicago of fifty-two countries, including the UK, the outcome of which was the Convention on International Civil Aviation or the 'Chicago Convention'. A Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation (PICAO) was set up until the convention was ratified and was superseded by the Montreal based International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) on 4 April 1947. The aims and objectives of the organisation are to develop the principles and techniques of international air navigation and to foster the planning and development of international air transport. The ICAO is an agency of the United Nations, it has a sovereign body, the Assembly, and a governing body, the Council. One of the major duties of the Council is to adopt international standards and recommended practices and to incorporate these as annexes to the Chicago Convention. The Council may act as an arbiter between member states on matters concerning aviation and implementation of the Convention and may investigate any situation which presents avoidable obstacles to the development of international air navigation and, in general, it may take whatever steps are necessary to maintain the safety and regulation of the operation of international air transport.
This series consists of the working papers of Lord Hailey in preparing Native Administration in the British African Territories. The papers consist of replies to questionnaires, records of meetings, and miscellaneous publications. Dates of papers have been given where possible; where the dates cannot be determined the date has been left blank. Administrative history: In 1941, following journeys undertaken in 1939 and 1940, Lord Hailey wrote a report on the working of the systems of local rule in Africa which was issued for official use under the title of Native Administration and Political Development in British Tropical Africa. In 1947 he was asked to update the report. Because his earlier enquiries had been restricted by war conditions, and because he believed that the changes made in the interval had in some cases involved issues not merely of practice but of policy, Hailey decided that an entirely new report was required and in 1950 his five-volume Native Administration in the British African Territories was published. In his preface Hailey noted that the new report '. is more limited in scope, in that it is confined to matters relating directly to the agencies employed for administrative purposes in local rule, including the creation of institutions of local government, and it refers only indirectly to political or constitutional developments. It is on the other hand more comprehensive, in so far that it embodies a detailed statement of the working of the system adopted in each of the Provincial units comprised in the ten Colonial territories concerned. It gives detailed information on the same scale regarding the procedure for the administration of justice through the native tribunals, and examines the evidence available of changes in the African law and custom which regulates the system of landholding.' Arrangement: Arranged by the following countries: Gambia, Gold Coast, Kenya, Nigeria, Northern Rhodesia, Nyasaland, Sierra Leone, Tanganyika, Uganda and Zanzibar.
Records of the Export Surpluses Department under the Minister Without Portfolio, and the Post-War Commodity Policy and Relief Department of the Board of Trade. Administrative history: In February 1941, as a result of a decision by the War Cabinet's Ministerial Sub-Committee on Export Surpluses, the Ministry of Economic Warfare set up an Export Surpluses Department under its Director-General, responsible to the Minister without Portfolio, who was in charge of all post-war reconstruction matters. In March, 1942, responsibility for the work on Export Surpluses and Allied Relief was transfered from the Minister without Portfolio to the President of the Board of Trade and the name of the Department changed from 'Surpluses' to 'Post-War Commodity Policy and Relief'. Its functions were defined as 'to keep in review the world commodity position, with special reference to post-war aspects; to devise measures for dealing with commodity surpluses (whether by purchase or otherwise) and for the orderly disposal of any stocks arising from such purchases; to co-ordinate action in regard to schemes for the regulation of production and marketing of foodstuffs and other primary commodities which have been, or are likely to be, in surplus supply; and to formulate plans for organising Post-war Relief and the distribution of available supplies to Europe, in conjunction with the Inter-Allied Committee and Bureau'. The Inter-Departmental Committee of Officials remained in being and reported to the President of the Board of Trade and through him to the Ministerial Committee on Reconstruction Problems. In November, 1943, by Cabinet decision, the Department was dissolved, the Relief Section being transferred to the Foreign Office; the Board of Trade (Commercial Relations and Treaties Department) and the Treasury became responsible for co-ordinating Commodity Policy work on the commercial and financial sides respectively, while the responsibility for individual commodities was given to Supply Departments, e.g. the Ministries of Food and Supply.
Summaries, annotated copies, etc. of proceedings arising from the consideration by the Transport Tribunal of charges schemes and the classification of merchandise submitted by the British Transport Commission. Administrative history: Arising out of nationalisation of transport under the Transport Act 1947 the Railway Rates Tribunal, established under the Railways Act 1921, was renamed the Transport Tribunal (Section 82 of Transport Act 1947), and Part V of the Act, Sections 72 to 87, contains the general provisions as to its functions. The jurisdiction exercised by the Appeal Tribunal established by the Road and Rail Traffic Act 1933 was transferred to the new tribunal under Section 73; the jurisdiction of the High Court with regard to the making or variation of tolls was transferred under Section 74. Most of the jurisdiction of the Railway and Canal Commission was transferred to the Transport Tribunal under Section 75. By virtue of the transitional provisions of Section 76 the Transport Commission was obliged to prepare Charges Schemes for submission to the Transport Tribunal and under Section 82 the Minister of Transport could make regulations for charges additional to those in operation under the Railways Act 1921 following consultation with the Permanent Members of the Transport Tribunal acting as a consultative committee. Under Section 84 the tribunal was given temporary additional jurisdiction as to the classification of merchandise, hitherto exercised by the minister under Section 24 (11) of the Railway and Canal Traffic Act 1888, during the transitional period between January 1st 1948 and the date on which any Charges Scheme affecting such carriage was confirmed. The tribunal heard appeals against licensing decisions of commission regarding Inland Waterways (Section 35 (3) and Section 36). They also heard appeals from decisions of Licensing Authorities (Sections 56 and 57) and with regard to port facilities (Sections 67-68). Any order of the Transport Tribunal could be recorded for execution in Scotland under Section 126 (12).
Representative Department of Health and Social Security case papers relating to the Attendance Allowance. This series also contains general correspondence between the Attendance Allowance Unit at North Fylde Central Offices and social workers, charitable organisations, general practitioners and members of the public, relating to individual claimants of the attendance allowance and to more general points concerning the allowance. Administrative history: Attendance allowance was a tax-free, non-contributory, cash benefit available for persons who were so severely disabled (mentally or physically) that they needed frequent attention, whether or not they received such attention. The allowance was introduced in December 1971 under the National Insurance (Old Persons' and Widows' Pensions and Attendance Allowance) Act 1970. The governing legislation in operation was the Social Security Act 1975 and the Social Security (Attendance Allowance) Amendment (No 2) Regulations SI 1979/1684. To make a claim, a form was completed by the claimant and sent to a regional office of the Department of Health and Social Security (DHSS). The DHSS arranged for a doctor to visit the claimant to carry out a medical examination. The examination report was then referred to a delegated medical practitioner who acted on behalf of the Attendance Allowance Board, and who decides if a certificate can be awarded. To qualify for payment, the medical conditions had to be satisfied for a period of six months. Anyone aged 2 years or over could claim entitlement to the allowance. The claimant had to be ordinarily resident in the UK. Awards were made at the North Fylde Central Offices of the DHSS, Norcross, Lancs. There were two rates of payment, depending on the amount of attention required.
Printed regulations, arbitration awards, and other papers concerning the pay and conditions of railway staff mostly printed and published in one form or another, of the railway companies, the railway unions and of various independent, or government - appointed bodies in the conciliation and arbitration field. Administrative history: The Railway Staff National Tribunal was established under part 6 of the Machinery of Negotiation for Railway Staff, which was agreed in February 1935 between the railway companies on one side and the National Union of Railwaymen, Associated Society of Locomotive Engineers and Firemen, and the Railway Clerks' Association on the other. The agreement covered weekly paid traffic employees and salaried staffs within certain salary limits; it set up negotiating machinery, of which the tribunal acted as the final resort for settling questions of major importance left unresolved at earlier stages. The tribunal consisted of three members, one chosen by the unions and one by the railway companies, with a permanent independent chairman appointed by the government. A standing Special Joint Committee on Machinery of Negotiation for Railway Staff administered the tribunal and published its decisions. The arrangement remained in operation throughout the Second World War and continued after nationalisation. Arrangement: During examination of the material in these two series for identification of duplicates some rearrangement of the pieces was made in an attempt to associate like material. This was found to require more sortation than time allowed, however, and readers should regard the present references as temporary, therefore. The two series would probably be best integrated, and arranged chronologically. Keys to former references can be found in the hard copy list for this in the Standard List Sets available on open access in the public areas.
Correspondence and papers of the Board of Trade's Railway Department. The records in this series deal mainly with merchandise marks as those records concerning the department's main functions were transferred with the functions themselves to other departments. Administrative history: The Railway Department was set up in 1840 following the Railway Regulation Act of that year. Originally attached to the statistical department it soon became a distinct unit. Reorganised in 1844 as a Railway Board it was administered separately from the Board of Trade. Between 1846 and 1851 the Board's railway functions were given to an independent Board of Railway Commissioners, but in the latter year this was dissolved and a new Railway Department re-assumed its old functions together with those relating to telegraphs and canals. In 1867 it took over from the Commercial Department functions duties relating to charters, gas, water and joint stock companies and in 1872 from the same department those relating to art unions, copyright, patents designs and trademarks, the alkali acts, industrial exhibitions and merchandise marks. In 1870 it had assumed responsibilities under an act of that year concerning life insurance companies. In 1881 it assumed duties under the Newspaper Libel and Registration Act, and in 1882 duties concerning electric light. In 1896 it took over from the Harbour Department general superintendence of the Standard Weights and Measures Office. Of these miscellaneous functions, alkali works passed to the Local Government Board in 1874, and life insurance companies to the Finance Department in the same year; electric light to the Harbour Department in 1896, and gas and water to the same department in 1901. Also in 1901 charters, joint stock companies, art unions, patents designs and trademarks, newspaper libels, industrial exhibitions and merchandise marks passed to the Finance Department. Copyright functions passed to the Patent Office in 1914. The new Ministry of Transport assumed all the department's main functions, relating to railways, canals, tramways and telegraphs in 1919.
These files cover the Home Office, responsibilities for enemy aliens and (under Defence Regulation 18B) British subjects interned. The series includes reports by the International Red Cross or the protecting power on conditions in British internment camps, and in enemy internment or prisoner of war camps. The papers in this series date from 1940 when the I/GEN series was created following the institution of mass internment. The Home Office was the Department with overall responsibility for the welfare of internees and the papers relate to the treatment of internees during their period of internment, the health and educational facilities which they were afforded, their movement within the United Kingdom and abroad, their release and in some cases repatriation, and the conditions in and administration of the camps in which they were kept. The series contains several examples of reports, by the International Red Cross and by Swiss legations, on the conditions in internment camps in the United Kingdom and the dominions and also on prisoner-of-war and internment camps in enemy and enemy-occupied countries. The latter were sent to the Foreign Office and forwarded to the Home Office in order that a check could be maintained on the conditions under which British nationals were being held abroad. Administrative history: Responsibility for the internal management and administration of the camps was transferred to the Home Office from the War Office in August 1940 although the War Office retained responsibility for security and the provision of guards. The camps were situated throughout the United Kingdom but the largest single concentration was on the Isle of Man. There were also camps in Australia and Canada to where several thousand internees were deported. Arrangement: In numerical order by departmental file number.
Committee papers and evidence before the Phelps-Brown Committee on the Engagement and Use of Labour in Construction. These relate to the engagement and use of labour in building and civil engineering, with particular reference to labour-only sub-contracting ('the Lump'), and the problems of high levels of labour turnover and unemployment. The committee papers include discussion papers prepared by members of the committee, and evidence presented to the committee by interested groups, organisations, and individuals. Definitions of the various categories of workers will be found in committee paper LC 30 in piece 1. Administrative history: The Committee on the Engagement and Use of Labour in Construction was appointed jointly by the Ministers of Labour and of Public Building and Works in March 1967. It was chaired by Prof E H Phelps-Brown, formerly of the London School of Economics, and was created to inquire into the engagement and use of labour in building and civil engineering, with particular reference to labour-only sub-contracting. Freelance or self-employed workers in the building industry were popularly known as 'the Lump' (referring to lump sum payments to ad hoc groups). The effect on revenue of such labour-only sub-contracting, with its unregulated finances, was concurrently investigated by the Public Accounts Committee. The Phelps-Brown Committee also inquired into the problems of high levels of labour turnover and unemployment. Its report was published in August 1968 (Cmnd 3714), and made specific recommendations for improvements, including registration of employers and bona-fide self-employed tradesmen, and statutory regulation of employers' responsibilities for workers. Legislation for registration of workers and the imposition of a levy on employers of unregistered workers, was subsequently proposed in the Construction Industry Contracts Bill 1970, which failed to be enacted due to the change in government in that year.
This series contains papers relating to buildings, fittings, supply of services, repairs, purchases of property and land, regulations, rights, and estate management in connection with particular royal palaces, residences and associated buildings and estates, including some of the royal parks. The series also includes some general files concerning the ministry's responsibilities for and management of royal palaces. Most of the files were registered in the AE series, but some earlier papers are in unregistered folders. Some files date from after the creation of the Department of the Environment and the Property Services Agency. The following terms appear frequently in pieces within the series: Freebord - In some places the right of claiming a certain quantity of land outside a park or forest. The land thus claimed is also referred to as Freebord. Wayleave - Permission to carry telephone wires over or along buildings, or to lay water pipes or drains across private land, and the charge or rent payable for the same. Administrative history: The Office of the King's Works and its successors were responsible for building and maintenance of royal palaces from the Middle Ages onwards, although surviving records of the Office of Works date only from the late seventeenth century, the majority being of nineteenth and twentieth century date. In 1989 maintenance of the five unoccupied royal palaces in London (the Tower of London, Hampton Court Palace, the state apartments at Kensington Palace, the Banqueting House, Whitehall, and Kew Palace with Queen Charlotte's Cottage) was taken over by the Historic Royal Palaces Agency.
The series consists of documents made available to and created by the Inquiry into the Culture, Practices and Ethics of the Press (The Leveson Inquiry). This includes court transcripts, witness statements, evidence relating to oral hearings and rulings made by the Inquiry chairman. Administrative history: The Prime Minister announced a two-part inquiry investigating the role of the press and police in the phone-hacking scandal, on 13 July 2011. Lord Justice Leveson was appointed as Chairman of the Inquiry. Part one of the Inquiry examined the culture, practices and ethics of the press and, in particular, the relationship of the press with the public, police and politicians. The Inquiry was approached in four Modules. These were: Module 1: The relationship between the press and the public and looks at phone-hacking and other potentially illegal behaviour. Module 2: The relationships between the press and police and the extent to which that has operated in the public interest. Module 3: The relationship between press and politicians. Module 4: Recommendations for a more effective policy and regulation that supports the integrity and freedom of the press while encouraging the highest ethical standards. Requests for written evidence in relation to Module 1 were sent out in August 2011 and Lord Justice Leveson also invited comments, evidence and submissions from any other interested parties. As part of this process, Lord Justice Leveson held a series of seminars in September and October to set the context for the Inquiry. Formal evidence hearings for Module 1 started on 14 November at the Royal Courts of Justice. The other Modules followed a similar pattern, with the evidence hearings for Module 3 finishing on 26 June 2012. Module 4 hearings ran from 9 July 2012 until final closing submissions on 24 July 2012.
This series contains Judge Advocate General's Office (JAG) administration files from a long running series dating from the 1920's. They cover the following subject matter: Function and organisation of the JAG Office: status, overseas establishments, staffing and accommodation moves; Courts martial procedure: cases held in camera, delays, abolition of the death penalty, announcement of findings in open court, definition of mutiny, revision of the Manual of Military Law, constitution of courts martial; Relations with other countries: JAG advice and memoranda, application of Army Act 1955 to native forces in West Africa, the proposed introduction of special summary military courts in Palestine; Legislation: comments on draft bills, interpretation and questions raised with various sections of the Army and other Acts affecting the armed forces; Committees: interdepartmental to consider reports of 1938 and 1946 Army and Air Force Courts Martial Committees, comments and papers for the Lewis, Oliver and Pilcher Committees; Policy: jurisdiction over USA forces in the UK, legal aid provision, jurisdiction over British merchant seamen, prisoner of war discipline regulations, members of legal profession convicted, arrangements with Bar Council and Law Society; Military: trial by military government courts of British civilians employed with Control Commission in Germany, responsibility of JAG for maintenance of law and order in a civil population in an occupied European territory, trial in UK of war crimes, responsibility of JAG for Nuremberg trial; Case files: controversial cases forwarded to JAG for comment, scrutiny of TV scripts based on JAG records e.g. Monocled Mutineer. The files contain drafts, comments, memoranda (many of which are hand-written) and correspondence between JAG and other relevant organisations, particularly the Directorates of Legal Services in the War Ministry and Air Ministry. The case files also contain transcripts, appeal documents and newspaper cuttings.
The records in this series record the decrees and orders of the Liverpool District Registry from August 1853, when district registries were first established at Preston and Liverpool, until November 1970. Liverpool's commercial standing is increasingly reflected in the number of partnership and company lawsuits on which the Registry adjudicated. The cases concern problems of inheritance and distribution created by unsatisfactory wills, and trusteeships and minorities, where the Chancery Court has taken on an equitable role in administering contentious assets. Many of the actions relate to business partnerships, the problems of their dissolution, of partition of stock, of companies winding up. There are cross references to the Liverpool cause books. Many of the early entries concern cases which turn on disputed wills, the rights of minors, families left in debt, and the like. These entry books, including in each case an index arranged by plaintiffs' surnames, report in outline the procedure in each case that came before the court and what decree or order was made on it. The date and names of plaintiffs and defendants head each entry, followed by the plaintiff's method of process and its filing, in the form of a bill of complaint, by the District Registrar. The order made after the hearing of the case appears in full and concludes with the words 'By the court'. The cases involved can often be traced in the cause books from references supplied with entries in this series. The orders of the court are not to be confused with the Registrars' orders to regulate the proceedings in it.
The documents represent the way in which the Endowed Schools Commission, as part of the Charity Commission, and its successor, the Board of Education, dealt with the administration of charity schools or charitable trusts connected to schools, including changes arising from the growth in state education. The material covers a range of types of schools, including elementary and secondary, free, national and British, for example. The records also cover a variety of matters such as schemes for the mortgage of school premises and the option of lease to the Local Education Authority and the administration of an endowment, for example. Administrative history: The records were created by the Endowed Schools Commission, as part of the Charity Commission, and its successor the Board of Education and, subsequently, the Charity Commission. Responsibility for education charities moved more than once between the Board of Education and the Charity Commission, eventually settling with the Charity Commission on 1 February 1974 under the Education Act 1973. The Charity Commission was established in 1853. It is responsible for the regulation of charities in England and Wales. It is a non-ministerial government department with quasi-judicial powers. The Endowed Schools Commission was created under the Endowed Schools Act 1869. The commission was able to draw up new schemes of government for endowed schools. The Endowed Schools Commission was merged with the Charity Commission in 1874. The Board of Education was created under the Board of Education Act 1899. It was responsible for administering the law of education and the law of charity relating to schools. It took on powers formerly exercised by the Charity Commission. Arrangement: The records are arranged in chronological order
The Anatomy dataset is divided into two sections, corresponding to the tables for bodies donated for anatomical research and their disposal by the schools of anatomy. The tables contain the following information: The dataset was used to control the processing of the returns of Forms AA2 and AA4, used for acceptance and disposal of bodies respectively, from the 25 anatomy offices. It handles the acceptance of human bodies for research purposes by 39 recognised anatomy medical schools at hospitals and universities in England and Wales and indicates the subsequent disposal of such bodies. The schools are divided into Provincial schools and London schools. These schools in turn have various 'satellite' schools which receive the bodies from these larger institutions. The provincial schools include Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Cardiff, Leeds, Leicester, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham, Oxford, Sheffield, Southampton. The city schools include Charing Cross Hospital, King's Hospital, Queen Mary and Westfield Hospital, Royal College of Surgeons, St George's Hospital, St Mary's Hospital, University College, London Hospital and Guys Hospital. The various satellite schools for London and the provinces are Brighton, Clwyd, St Andrew's, Keele, Loughborough, Norwich, Nutfield, Plymouth, Swindon, Oswestry and the Anglo-European College of Chiropractic (AECC). The tables contain the following information: Date of receipt of AA2 form recording acceptance of body by licensed school; Full name, sex and age of deceased; Date, cause and place of death; Name and full address of licensed school where body is held and date received; Name and full address of person authorising use of body; Permission to retain parts; Person who is licensed to sign for body; Date place and method of disposal, whether by cremation or burial; Licensed teacher, as well as first to fifth person authorised to sign for disposal of body; Date AA4 form was signed recording disposal of body. Reports produced include a list of all bodies being used for anatomical examination; all bodies exceeding the three year limit; bodies in use by a school and a list of bodies accepted by a school. When the Human Tissue Act 2004 came into force on 1 September 2006, it repealed the Anatomy Act 1984 and brought about a number of significant changes. These changes included the cessation of licensing of teachers of anatomy and the abolition of the AA2/AA4 forms, and the associated anatomy database. The datasets in this series are available to download. Links to individual datasets can be found at piece level. Administrative history: The Anatomy dataset incorporates data compiled by the Anatomy Office division of the Department of Health in the process of carrying out the requirements of the 1984 Anatomy Act and 1988 regulations which relate to the acceptance and disposal of bodies donated for anatomical research. The datasets are an electronic version of hard copy registers, files and reports similar to those produced by Her Majesty's Inspector of Anatomy since 1832. The database was introduced in 1992, running parallel with paper registers until 1995. The 1832 Anatomy Act decreed that every Inspector was obliged to make a quarterly return to the Secretary of State or Chief Secretary of every deceased person's body which had been used for anatomical research 'distinguishing the sex, and as far as is known at the time, the name and age of each person whose body was so used.' A body could not be removed from the place where a person had died without a death certificate together with written or verbal proof that the body could be donated for anatomical research subject to the next of kin's consent. The same act also indicated that institutions receiving a body for anatomical research had to send a return to the Inspector providing details about the deceased as well as a certificate of the interment of the body. The 1961 Human Tissue Act allowed for the cremation of such bodies in accordance with the cremation acts of 1902 and 1952. The 1984 Act and the 1988 regulations enforce that every person granted a licence to practise anatomy must compile and keep records containing particulars relating to each anatomical specimen. Bodies used for anatomical research are to be disposed of no later than three years after receipt unless exceptional circumstances prevail as provided under the 1984 Anatomy Act and the 1988 Anatomy Regulations. The Anatomy database has, according to its users, resulted in a more effective time-saving system compared to the previous hard copy registers. The returns for the dataset from the anatomy offices on forms AA2 and AA4 are filed with the Health Department's Departmental Records Officer five years from record creation but the content is maintained indefinitely in the electronic Access database. Arrangement: Hardware: The database was created on an IBM-compatible PC. Operating System: Originally Windows 3.1, but subsequently upgraded to later versions of Microsoft Windows. Application Software: Originally contained in a set of Microsoft Excel (version not known) spreadsheets. Four were produced per year, divided into two categories; London and the Regions from 1992 until 1995. The information was converted to Microsoft Access, version 2.0 in 1995. Access was not customised for use for the Anatomy database for the first transfer but in 1999 the system was revised to include more tables, query forms, and reports. Other application software includes Crystal reports version 2.0 (database structure); Forefront Forehelp version 1.04 (on-line help generator); VB Tools version 4.0 - Customs control for date input format. How data was originally captured and validated: On screen forms.
Gazettes, proclamations and pamphlets printed in France, nearly all in French. Proclamations comprise the majority of this series. They take many forms: edicts, ordonnances, déclarations , letters patent, judgements, sentences, relations, ordres, mandements, harangues, discours , letters, extracts from registers, and most commonly, arrests du Conseil d'Estat du Roy. The latter are the proclamations of the King in council, although he might not always be present. When he is, this is indicated by the formula: Le roi étant en son conseil. Other authorities issuing proclamations include: la Cour des Monnoyes, le prévot des marchands et echevins de Paris, la Cour du Parlement de Paris, le Conseil Royal des Finances, la Cour des Aids, les élus de Paris, le Lieutenant General de Police de Paris, les fermiers generaux , and the Archbishop of Paris. The subject matter of the proclamations covers every aspect of life in the kingdom, and particularly in Paris. Areas particularly well-represented include: taxation, including the setting of rates of duty and the appointment and dismissal of tax-farmers military and naval affairs, ranging from the formation and disbandment of units down to the detail of uniforms religion, of which the majority are measures against the Protestants, but there is also material on Jansenism commodities - there are detailed regulations on all types of goods, with much emphasis on salt, wine, various foodstuffs, slate, gold and silver and clothing. Most of the edicts on clothing forbid excessive luxury postal services coinage shipping and fishing - many detailed regulations, especially in time of war justice and public order, including many individual sentences ranging from the trivial to sentences to death, to the galleys, and breaking on the wheel. There are many prescriptions on books and pamphlets, mostly on religious subjects colonies, with many references to the activities of the East India Company political or polemical, often in the form of an apologia for a declaration of war or peace, etc A wide range of other subjects is covered, especially in the reign of Louis XV, on subjects as diverse as lotteries, fire precautions, woods and forests, etc. Only two proclamations predate Henri IV. Those in the reign of Henri IV consist mainly of déclarations and ordonnances and include an affirmation of Catholicism, an exhortation to wage war on Protestants, and reasons for his decision in 1690 to attack the Duke of Savoy. In the period of Louis XIII there are pieces relating to the rising at La Rochelle in 1627, including a declaration by the Duc de Rohan explaining why he has taken up arms against the King. Until 1666 the proclamations issued under Louis XIV deal largely with coinage regulations. Some deal with the declaration of war against Britain and the alliance with the United Provinces. There is also a great deal of material on the campaign against the United Provinces in 1672-1674. The declaration of the War of the Spanish Succession is also included. The majority of proclamations fall within the reign of Louis XV. The remainder fall chiefly within the 1720s and deal mostly with domestic matters, many specific to Paris. On 11 June 1726, Cardinal Fleuri succeeded the Duc de Bourbon as Chief Minister, and his name is thereafter to be seen on many proclamations. The pamphlets fall mainly within the reign of Louis XIV, and include descriptions of military actions, political tracts, verses, a programme for the King's carousel of 1662, lists of book titles and general miscellanea. Arrangement: Arranged in order of type: gazettes, followed by proclamations, then pamphlets. The final pamphlets in the series can be only roughly dated. Where the original title of a piece adequately describes its contents it is quoted in the series list that follows this introductory note in the original language, abridged as appropriate; where this is not the case a brief summary is given in the list in English. However, the Extraordinaires and 'Relations', all having very lengthy titles, are summarised in modern French. Otherwise, spelling and the use of accents is consistent with the originals.
Includes agenda and minutes of meetings of theWar Works Commission; general policy files; case files on closures of highways and footpaths, and acquisition and retention of land; together with related case papers, proceedings of private and public enquiries, and reports to ministers. Administrative history: The Requisitioned Land and War Works Act, 1945 (8 and 9 Geo. VI c43), dealt with the problems arising out of the emergency use of private land for the construction of essential installations during the 1939-1945 War. The main provisions of the Act related to the recovery of expenses incurred by either the Government or private interests The Defence Regulations gave the Government power to authorize private firms (ordnance factories were particularly involved) to extend their premises on to land which they did not own., under the Defence Regulations, in constructing works on land in which they had no legal interest, works which would have reverted to the owner of the land at the cessation of hostilities. Under the 1945 Act certain ministers-the First Lord of the Admiralty, Secretary of State for War, Secretary of State for Air, Minister of Supply, Minister of Aircraft Production, Minister of War Transport, Postmaster-General, and Minister of Works - were given the power of compulsory acquisition of such land, declaring the purpose of the acquisition to be: to realise the value of the installations to continue to use the installations or to control the future use of the installations. The ministers appointed were also empowered to acquire such land as had been badly mutilated as a result of the use to which it had been put during the War, and to rehabilitate it in any suitable way. Any pertinent easements or restrictions on use of the land could be purchased at the same time. The Minister of (War) Transport was given further powers under Section 3 of the Act to authorize the permanent closure or diversion of any roads or footpaths which, in order to help the smooth operation of wartime establishments, and particularly airfields, had been so treated during the War, and to close or divert further roads and footpaths as required. In order to see that these ministerial powers were not abused, the Act provided for the establishment of the War Works Commission, chaired until 1949 by Sir Malcolm Trustram Eve, and from that date by Sir Thomas Phillips, to inquire into and report upon Ministerial proposals to acquire land, or close or divert roads and footpaths, where the Minister received reasonable objections to his proposals from individuals or organizations with a legitimate interest. Objections were only normally accepted from individuals with a legal interest in the property affected by the proposal, or responsible organizations (for example The Society for the Preservation of Rural England), or local authorities. Unopposed proposals were not referred to the commission. When the commission, which had power to require anybody to furnish evidence, had considered the case fully, often holding a public inquiry in the neighbourhood during the course of its deliberations, it reported its findings and recommendations back to the Minister. The degree of control exercised by the commission varied according to the reason for the proposed action. If the grounds were purely financial - to recover as much as possible of the capital outlay - or if the rehabilitation of land or the compulsory purchase of a dwelling house were involved, than an adverse report by the commission was binding on the minister. If, however, the grounds were the continued use, or control of the future use of an establishment, the minister was still entitled to carry out his proposals provided he laid before both Houses of Parliament a copy of the commission's report and his reasons for wishing to proceed in spite of it, and provided that neither House passed a resolution against it within 40 days. The period during which all proposals had to be brought, within two years of the end of the wartime period (measured by the date when the Defence Regulations ceased to apply - February 24th 1946) under the original Act, was extended by the Acquisition of Land (Authorisation Procedure) Act 1946 (9 and 10 Geo.VI c49), and the Supplies and Services (Defence Purposes) Act 1951 (14 and 15 Geo. VI c25). The commission was dissolved by Order in Council in October 1964.
Minutes from 1796-1801 and 1807-1812 and Treasury letter books of the Hackney Coach Commissioners together with letter books of the Board of Stamps and the Board of Stamps and Taxes concerning hackney carriage and hawkers and pedlars' licences. There is also an entry book of appointments to distributors of stamps and others to issue and inspect hawkers and pedlars' licences, 1832 to 1860. Administrative history: The Board of Commissioners of Hackney Coaches was created by an act of 1694 to regulate and license hackney carriages in the metropolitan area. Regulation had previously, since the early 17th century, been exercised mainly by the City Corporation and the magistrates in concert with, or on the order of, the Privy Council, or as a result of royal proclamation. In 1662 a licensing system was introduced, under a Board of Commissioners of Hackney Coaches, but this lapsed in 1679 after criticism of the expense of administering it. However, new commissioners were appointed by royal warrant in 1687 following complaints of the great obstruction to passage and trade due to lack of regulation. For the first year of its existence the board's licensing powers, extended to stage coaches throughout England and Wales and, from 1711 onwards, sedan chairs plying for hire in London. Unlike other revenue boards the commissioners had powers to make byelaws, subject to ratification by any three of the Lord Chancellor, Lord Keeper, Lords Commissioners of the Great Seal, the chief justices of the Common Pleas and King's Bench and the Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer. It controlled the numbers of coaches and chairs, enforced the statutory fares, and in addition, it shared summary jurisdiction over breaches of its bylaws and the Hackney Carriage Acts, and in disputes, with the city and county magistrates, although by the end of the 18th century most cases were heard by magistrates. Following the second report of the Public Accounts Commissioners in 1781 Lord North prepared a bill to consolidate the board with one of the other revenue boards. This bill proved abortive and no alteration was made. In 1797 the matter was revived when the Finance Committee of the House of Commons recommended such an amalgamation but it was not until 1810 that the Hackney Coach Board took over the work of the Board of Commissioners of Hawkers and Pedlars. In 1832 the Hackney Coach Board was abolished and its licensing powers and management of the licence duties passed first to the Board of Stamps and then, in 1833, to the Board of Stamps and Taxes. Its regulatory powers passed entirely to a metropolitan magistrate nominated by the Secretary of State for Home Affairs. In 1838 the Registrar of Metropolitan Public Carriages assumed responsibility for licensing, although the Board of Stamps and Taxes retained control over the duties levied until 1847 when they were transferred to the Board of Excise. In 1849 they were taken over by the newly-created Board of Inland Revenue. In 1870 hackney carriages were brought under a licensing system, based on fees, managed by the Metropolitan Police, under the authority of the Home Secretary. Licences on hawkers and pedlars were first instituted in 1697 for a year to help pay the interest on the debt incurred on the transport services during the Irish campaign. Initially, they were managed under the control of the Board of Transportation but on their renewal in 1698 the Treasury appointed a new Board of Commissioners of Hawkers, Pedlars and Petty Chapmen. The duties were renewed for varying periods until 1716 when they were made permanent. In 1810 the Hawkers and Pedlars' Board was abolished and its work taken over by the Board of Hackney Coach Commissioners. In 1832 licensing work passed to the Board of Stamps and the duties were successively administered by the Board of Stamps and Taxes in 1833 and the Board of Inland Revenue in 1849. In 1864 the stamp duties on hawkers and pedlars' licences were converted to excise licence duties and in 1870 these duties ceased to be levied on licences to hawkers on foot. Such traders were subsequently required to take out a certificate from the police under the Pedlars' Act 1870. The licence duties on other hawkers (e.g. those travelling with a horse) remained in force, collection having passed to the county councils under the Local Government Act of 1888. Administrative responsibility passed from the Board of Customs and Excise to the local authorities in 1950 following the Finance Act 1949. Hawkers' licences were finally abolished under the Local Government Act 1966.
This series contains correspondence and papers relating to the management of the Royal Parks estate and other open areas within London in the care of the Office of Works and its successors, including buildings located within such areas. Some files relate to the Royal Parks collectively; most cover the individual park areas: Bushy Park, The Green Park, Greenwich Park, Hyde Park, Kensington Gardens, Primrose Hill, Regent's Park, Richmond Park, St James's Park, and Victoria Tower Gardens; but there are also files relating specifically to Brompton Cemetery, Hampton Court Gardens and the Longford River. The series covers a wide range of estate management issues including: governance, boundary delineation, disposal of land, rent policy, wayleaves and encroachments, freebord licenses, provision of sports and leisure facilities (including interaction with providers of specialist facilities such as the Open Air Theatre and London Zoo), grazing rights and policing; water mains, Ranelagh sewer, roads, bridges, car parks and improvement schemes; the impact of historic events such as the development of London Airport, extensions to London Underground stations and lines (Piccadilly, Fleet and Jubilee), Silver Jubilee celebrations, and the Second World War. Some files include historic notes on an individual Park; the variety of buildings to be maintained: cottages, lodges, houses, barracks, statues and gates. All files in this series were registered in the LRE/D series. Administrative history: In 1851 the Commissioners of the Office of Works were made responsible for all duties related to the maintenance of the Royal Parks and gardens. The First Commissioner also had specialised powers in connection with the regulation of certain commons and open spaces elsewhere in London. For the next 140 years the Royal Parks continued to be administered as a distinct unit within the Office of Works and its successors, headed by the Bailiff of the Royal Parks. From 1970 responsibility for the Royal Parks passed (from the Ministry of Public Buildings and Works) to the newly created Department of the Environment (DoE). The Parks were administered through the Directorate of Ancient Monuments and Historic Buildings which was renamed the Heritage and Royal Estate Directorate in 1987. A specialist agency within DoE - the Property Services Agency (PSA) - created in 1972, managed and maintained the Parks through its Special Services Group (SSG). The London Region of the PSA was established in about 1974. as successors to the Directorate of Works (London). PSA was restructured in 1990, and from 1991 DoE began reviewing its responsibility for the Royal Parks and the Royal Parks Constabulary. In 1992 responsibility for most of DoE's heritage matters passed to the Department of National Heritage (DNH), renamed the Department for Culture Media and Sport (DCMS) in 1997. The 1992 report of the Royal Parks (Jenkins) Review Group was followed by the publication of new policy guidance for the administration of the Royal Parks and resulted in the establishment of the Royal Parks Agency (RPA) in 1993, as an Executive Agency sponsored by the Royal Estate Division of the Department of National Heritage. The Royal Parks Agency was to manage and police the eight royal parks in London (St James's Park, The Green Park, Hyde Park, Kensington Gardens, Regent's Park, Greenwich Park, Richmond Park, and Bushy Park) and some other open spaces in central London (Brompton Cemetery, Primrose Hill, Victoria Tower Gardens, Parliament Square Gardens and Grosvenor Square Gardens). In addition RPA was to maintain (but not police) Nos. 10, 11, and 12 Downing Street Gardens, Canning Green, St Margaret's Church Green, Poets Green and the Longford River (except in Hampton Court Park). The parks belong to the Queen in right of the Crown, but the Secretary of State had responsibility under the Crown Lands Act of 1851 for funding, management, upkeep, security and presentation to the public. Under the Greater London Authority Act 1999, the function of the Secretary of State under s. 22 of the Crown Lands Act 1851 relating to responsibility for the care, control, management and regulation of Parliament Square Gardens was transferred to the Greater London Authority (GLA) with effect from October 2000. The Royal Parks Agency included the Royal Parks Constabulary. This Park Keeping Force of the Royal Parks had been created as a special force under the Parks Regulations Act 1872. The Force was renamed The Royal Parks Constabulary (RPC) in 1974. The area policed by the RPC was not identical to that managed by the Royal Parks Agency (RPA). RPC had additional responsibility for Tower Gardens, the Natural History Museum Gardens, Abingdon Street Garden, and Hampton Court Park Gardens and Green. Policing of Hyde Park was the responsibility of the Metropolitan Police until it was transferred to RPC in 1993 on the recommendation of the Jenkins Review Group, to coincide with the establishment of the RPA. Responsibility for policing the Royal Parks was transferred to the Metropolitan Police in 2004, and the Royal Parks Constabulary had ceased to exist by 2006.
Files of the Ministry of Education and successors' Schools Branch relating to general aspects of primary and secondary education since the coming into force of the Education Act 1944. The series includes files on such topics as comprehensive education, examinations, educational and career guidance, diocesan education committees and local government reorganisation and on such bodies as the Secondary Schools Examination Council, the Curriculum Study Group and the Schools Council for the Curriculum and Examinations. Material on the School Certificate, the General Certificate of Education and the Certificate of Secondary Education is also included. Following the 1944 Education Act the previous E (Elementary) and S (Secondary) Local Education Authority files were reclassified P/S but no P/S General files were opened, the old E and S General series continued in use and, inevitably, there was much overlapping of subject matter. Included in this series are representative specimen files from certain of the routine Primary/Secondary and General Local Education Authority files. The relevant policy and procedure files for each series will be found in the General files. These series are: P/S LEA A - Attendance P/S LEA B - Regulations P/S LEA P - Extra district children P/S LEA S - Miscellaneous P/S LEA T - Religious instruction G LEA G - Section 53 of the 1944 Education Act, the provision of facilities for recreation and social and physical training G LEA P(2) - Transport G LEA Q - Provision of clothing Files relating to the Schools Council for the Curriculum and Examinations, the Curriculum Study Group and the Secondary Schools Examinations Council are included in this series. Administrative history: On 1 October 1964 the Schools Council for the Curriculum and Examinations was set up and assumed responsibility for the functions previously exercised by the Curriculum Study Group and the Secondary Schools Examinations Council. Arrangement: The General files are arranged in numerical order and the Local Education Authority files in alphabetical order of counties and county boroughs. The Secondary Schools Examinations Council files are arranged under subject headings.
Files from the EMC (Employment of Children) series, concerning the employment of children, mainly in entertainment, and the approval of bye-laws governing child employment made by local authorities. There are also papers of the Committee on the Employment of Children as Film Actors, in Theatrical Work and in Ballet 1950 (Bateson Committee), and papers concerning the drafting and operation of sections 37 to 39 of the Children and Young Persons Act, 1963. Administrative history: Although the earliest legislation specifically regarding children taking part in public entertainments is the Children's Dangerous Performances Act 1879, the first major piece of legislation to be enacted was the Prevention of Cruelty to, and Protection of, Children Act 1889. The powers of this act were amplified by the Prevention of Cruelty to Children Act 1894, which enabled courts to issue licences for the employment of children in entertainment, and authorised factory inspectors to examine premises where children performed. Further refinements were embodied in the Employment of Children Act 1903. Under the provisions of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933, the Home Office dealt in general with child employment, whilst the Ministry of Education was responsible for making rules governing the licensing of child performers. The Ministry of Education also determined appeals against the decisions of local education authorities (LEAs), which acted as local licensing authorities empowered to make bye-laws governing child employment. Registers of licences issued were maintained by the LEAs. Following the recommendation of the Bateson Committee that one department should be responsible for the regulation of child employment in all types of entertainment, this function was assumed by the Home Office in 1951. In 1972, the child care responsibilities of the Home Office and this file series were transferred to the Department of Health and Social Security. Arrangement: The papers in this series are arranged in approximate numerical order by departmental file number. The inclusion of a date preceding the file number (as in EMC (1964) 3/7/10) indicates that the year in which the file was created was included in the file reference (in this case, 1964). This system of prefixing an 'overyear' was introduced in 1958 by Home Office Notice 116/1958.
This series consists of general policy and administrative files relating to classified roads and associated bridges, tunnels and ferries. In 1956 the HC series of registered files was created incorporating much of the earlier HCR series and also including some HG (Highways General) and HP (Highways Policy) files. This series consists of files from the HC series dating from its inception until the series ended in 1961. Administrative history: The Ministry of Transport Act 1919 gave the Minister of Transport power to classify major roads into first and second classes, with lesser roads remaining unclassified. This enabled the Minister to standardize the scale of grants made to local highways authorities for the construction, improvement and maintenance of the larger roads within their boundaries. In 1946 a further classification, Class III, was introduced to cover minor roads which served more than local traffic. In the same year a division was set up under the Highways Administration to deal with the general policy and administration for all classified roads except trunk roads which were dealt with by a separate division. In 1955 the Classified Roads Division was merged into the Highways General and Highways Policy divisions for a short period; it re-emerged intact the next year. The division was finally absorbed in the regional reorganisation of the Highways Administration in 1961. The division was chiefly concerned with the examination and approval of grant applications for the construction, improvement and maintenance of classified roads and bridges under the Development and Road Improvement Funds Act 1909; deciding the scale and conditions for such grants and, through the grant system, exerting an influence over the local highways authorities in accordance with Ministerial policy. It also supplied non-engineering advice to the local highways authorities (Highways Engineering Division was responsible for engineering matters) and settled disputes between local highways authorities or between other interested parties on highways matters. The division's responsibility for classified roads extended to those on bridges over, or tunnels under, tidal waters, ferry piers and ferries connecting classified roads. Other interests included responsibilities under the Public Utilities Street Works Act 1950 which laid down a comprehensive code of procedure for the breaking up of streets by statutory undertakers to lay gas, water or electricity mains, sewers, telephone cables and so forth. Additionally, the division was responsible for regulating the contributions made under the Ministry of Transport Act 1919 towards the salaries of local authority surveyors or engineers, again using the medium of the grant to influence the standards of work carried out by the local highways authorities.
Files of the Board of Education, University Branch, and Ministry of Education, Teachers Branch University concerning courses for students wishing to qualify as certified teachers and secondary school teachers. Of the various sub-series of files only the papers concerned with general matters from 1931 to 1935 are extant. They record the liaison between the Board of Education and University Training Departments, the organisation of university departments and their co-operation with other colleges. For the period 1936-1944 only one complete representative specimen file has been preserved. For the period 1945 to 1961 a greater number of files dealing with general policy matters and the provision of new courses in the university training departments have been preserved. A file for the Department of Education, Queen's University, Belfast concerning the interchangeability of teacher training grants between England and Northern Ireland is also available. Administrative history: In 1911 the Board of Education became responsible for the administration of Exchequer grants in aid of Universities and University Colleges in England and Wales hitherto administered by the Treasury. The opportunity was taken to improve the conditions under which students entering University Institutions with the intention of becoming teachers in Elementary Schools could take a degree and undergo the necessary course of professional training. These proposals were introduced in the Board of Education's Statement of Grants in aid of Technical and Professional work in Universities which led to the provision of a four-year course of instruction by University Training Departments. The course qualified candidates for recognition as certificated teachers. The first three years were devoted wholly or mainly to academic work for a degree, and a fourth or post-graduate year devoted to professional training in the principles and practice of teaching in Public Elementary Schools. Most departments also provided an approved course of training of teachers for secondary schools subject to the limitations and conditions set out in the Regulations for the Training of Teachers for Secondary Schools. Arrangement: In alphabetical order of Universities.
This series contains the Roll of Assistant, later Enrolled Nurses (having only two years' training) compiled by the General Nursing Council for England and Wales under the provisions of the 1973 Nurses Act. The Roll of Nurses (SENs) was opened in 1944 and is held in this series. Both male and female assistant nurses are included on the same Roll, but assistant nurses who worked in mental hospitals were not deemed to be eligible for inclusion. Printed nominal indexes are in DT 11/1-9. Administrative history: Applications for admission to the Register of Nurses could be accepted only from properly qualified nurses who had completed a three-year training course. There was a large group of second grade or assistant nurses with two years training who were therefore ineligible for registration. In November 1937, an Interdepartmental Committee on Nursing Services, chaired by the Earl of Athlone, recommended that the assistant nurse should be given a recognized status and placed on a roll under the control of the General Nursing Council. This recommendation was eventually embodied in the Nurses Act 1943 by which the General Nursing Council was to regulate the formation, maintenance and publication of the roll and to establish conditions of admission to and removal from the roll. Unlike the register, the roll included male and female Assistant nurses on one list from the beginning. There was no provision in the 1943 Act for maintenance of the roll in several parts so that there could be no enrolment of assistant nurses working with mental patients. The Nurses Act 1964 gave the council power to make rules for the enrolment of nurses with experience in psychiatric nursing and two rolls were opened for mental nurses and nurses for the mentally subnormal. In 1961 it was considered that the use of the term 'Assistant Nurse' was hindering recruitment and the Enrolled Nurses Rules Approval Instrument SI 1961/1519 changed the name to State Enrolled Nurse and the Roll of Assistant Nurses became the Roll of Nurses. Arrangement: Numerical order of enrolment until 1968. Thereafter the entries were typed.
This series contains minutes and papers of the Cotton Board and Textile Council and their sub-committees and files of correspondence, including some papers of Lord Rochdale, as Chairman of the Board, from 1960 to 1971. Administrative history: The first meeting of the Cotton Board was held in September 1939 under the chairmanship of Sir Percy Ashley, but it was not until March 1940 that the board was given statutory powers (Cotton Industry Act, 1940). This Act provided for the establishment of the board for the purpose of 'performing, with a view generally to the benefit of the industry and in particular to the maintenance and extension of export trade therein, and advising on questions relating to the industry which may be referred to them by any Government Department.' Additionally, the following services can be performed by the board: any measures calculated in their opinion to be conducive to the maintenance or extension of export trade in the industry research and investigation in matters relating to the consumption of products of the industry, and the promotion and encouragement of such research and investigation by financial assistance or otherwise the collection and publication of statistics and other information relating to the industry negotiation with any person in respect of any matter appearing to them to affect, or likely to affect, the industry Under the Cotton Industry Development Council (amendment No.6) Order 1966 (Statutory Instrument 1966 No. 1578) the name of the Cotton Board was changed to the Textile Council. The Textile Council Imports Commission was set up as a result of the proposal by Douglas Jay, President of the Board of Trade. Its functions were: to keep a watch on the volume, type, source and price of textiles of the kind produced by the industry covered by the Textile Council to assist firms or sections of the industry to prepare and submit anti-dumping applications to the Board of Trade to study and report on problems connected with imports such as evasion and substitution to act as the normal channel of communication between the industry and the Board of Trade on proposals to use tariff or import controls to regulate the flow of imports The Special Committee appointed under the Cotton Industry Act 1959 was to look into costs, supplies and delivery dates. It consisted of a small group of members of the Cotton Board.
Files of the Medical Branch and its successor, the Special Service Branch concerned with the consideration and formation of policy under the Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf Children) Act, 1893; the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act 1899 and subsequent Education Acts for the provision and administration of special educational facilities for physically and mentally handicapped children. There are a few papers of an earlier date (1872-1893) urging the compulsory education of blind children and deaf children and reports by HM Inspectorate on arrangements made in the metropolis for the education of the blind and the training of teachers of the blind. This group of files also embraces 'general' matter of the School Medical Service which stemmed from the provisions of the Education (Administrative Provisions) Act 1907 and the Local Education Authorities (Medical Treatment) Act 1909; and the policy, procedure and organisation of the School Meals Service following the Education (Provision of Meals) Act 1906. The papers record evacuation arrangements in respect of the Second World War, and provision for the conduct of the school health service (including special educational treatment), and of the school meals service, during wartime. Records dating from 1946 include, inter alia, the school health, school meals, and special educational treatment general policy decisions arising out of the 1944 Education Act, and its subsequent modification under the Education (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1953; also changes in arrangements in consequence of the National Health Service Act 1946 and the School Health Service and Handicapped Pupils Regulations 1953. The post-war problems of shortages and rationing in a period of rapid social development figure prominently in the papers. Both M (Medical) and SS (Special Services) files are represented in this series. The latter series was raised in the late 1960s and both ran concurrently. After 1974, when the medical function was transferred to the Ministry of Health, only SS files were raised. Files appearing under the subject heading 'General' within each of the major groupings were formed from a composite collection of various subjects. Additional papers on a particular code subject may therefore be found among the files listed under code numbers 1, 11 and 17. A few files contain indexes. Arrangement: Files dated 1945 and earlier are arranged in chronological order under subject headings, falling under the major groupings of (1) School Health Service, (2) School Meals Service and (3) Special Educational Treatment. Records dating from 1946 are listed in file number order as far as practical, instead of grouped, as in the earlier coded system.
The records concern the investigation of accidents involving civil aircraft under the Civil Aviation (Investigation of Accidents) Regulations of 1909. The series contains selected case files relating to the investigation of individual air accidents. The majority of files selected deal with major accidents or accidents involving significant aircraft types or prototypes, or contain significant recommendations for future practice. Administrative history: The Accidents Investigation Branch was created in 1915 as part of the Royal Flying Corps. In 1918 a Department of Civil Aviation was set up in the Air Ministry to which the Accidents Investigation Branch became a constituent part thereof, being concerned with both civil and military air accidents. In 1946 the Accidents Investigation Branch became part of the new Ministry of Civil Aviation (which was amalgamated with the Ministry of Transport in 1953 to form the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation). It continued to assist the Royal Air Force with accident investigations. In 1959 the work of the branch was transferred to a new Ministry of Aviation and then in 1966 to the Board of Trade, which was renamed the Department of Trade and Industry in 1970 and (temporarily) the Department of Trade in 1974. On the re-amalgamation of the Departments of Trade and Industry in 1983 the branch was transferred to the Department of Transport, where it remains. In November 1987 its name was changed to the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB). In 1997 the Branch came under the control of the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions where it continues to carry out its business. AAIB's main task is to investigate all accidents to civil aircraft in the UK in order to determine the circumstances and causes with a view to the prevention of similar accidents in the future. As well as having this responsibility, AAIB may also participate in overseas investigations when a British-registered or British-manufactured aircraft is involved, and they participate in the investigation of accidents to military aircraft at the request of the Ministry of Defence. In addition, AAIB receives many requests for assistance from foreign countries. Arrangement: With the exception of EWF, the third letter of the prefix indicates the type of investigation involved as follows: EWA overseas, British-registered aircraft EWB overseas, foreign-registered aircraft EWC civil aircraft, UK EWD military aircraft EWE combined civil/military EWF was used, regardless of the type of investigation, to indicate a file containing correspondence with interested parties. Typically, the term 'interested parties' refers to relatives of the deceased or their representatives The files are arranged in previous reference order within each accession.
Gazettes, proclamations, pamphlets, newsletters and other printed documents from the United Provinces of the Netherlands. Gazettes are newsletters carrying reports from the major European capitals and cover the period 1665-1784. They are published in Amsterdam, Delft, Haarlem, Rotterdam, The Hague, Utrecht, Weesp and Groningen. Some are daily, and where the word '[day]' appears in the title, it represents the day of the week in Dutch, e.g. Saturdaegse , Dingsdaeghse etc. A proclamation is usually in the form of a Placcaet (proclamation), an Ordonnantie (ordinance) or a Waerschouwing (warning). Another form is the Sententie , or publication of a significant court sentence. Most are issued by the national States General, but there are some by provincial assemblies. The papers are overwhelmingly seventeenth century. Many regulate the taxation and conduct of trade in staples such as salt, soap, vinegar, textiles, coal, candles, oil, fish, beer, etc. Other subjects include tax-farming, horses and cattle, adultery and the proscription of writings considered to be seditious. In time of war there are restrictions on the movements of merchant ships and the fishing and whaling fleets, proclamations calling Dutch merchant seamen to the naval service and proscriptions on trade with the enemy. In 1672 there are two sentences against Cornelis de Wit, and in 1688 there is the resolution of the States General to equip William of Orange for his expedition to England. There is frequently no imprint. Pamphlets are largely anonymous and frequently without imprint, so authorship must be ascertained from internal evidence. Many put the case for the government, and in some cases this is reinforced by the imprint of the government printer. The period covered is the same as the proclamations. The following are typical: despatches from military and naval commanders; descriptions of naval and land battles, many elaborately illustrated; reports from the colonies; verse celebrating military and political events; lists of ships, troops, prisoners and casualties; details of peace negotiations; religious affairs, especially persecution of Protestants; attacks on the Bishop of Münster; inventories of goods and cargoes for sale; polemics in the form of imaginary discussions. During the final move of the Public Record Office from Chancery Lane, London, to Kew, Surrey, six bound volumes of general statutes and ordinances of the city of Rotterdam, 1703-1770 found in the Public Record Office library were identified as documents rather than published material. They have been added as SP 119/1030-1035 because of their significance to the social historian of the Dutch Republic. Arrangement: The papers are ordered chronologically within the divisions: gazettes, proclamations and pamphlets, with the exception of SP 119/1030-1034 which are arranged by subject within book divisions.
This series consists of minutes of the Claims Commission concerning its responsibilities for dealing with claims against the War Office arising from accidents, theft or damage caused by troops; advising the Army Council on the avoidance of such incidents; and supervising the work of other claims commissions established in overseas theatres of war. Administrative history: The Claims Commission was set up by Army Order 183 of 1940 to: a) deal with claims at home made by or against the War Department in respect of personal injury or damage to property arising from the acts of military or civilian personnel for whom the department was responsible, arising out of accidents (including traffic accidents) to persons or property, pillage, looting, theft, explosions of ammunition and shooting, fires and damage to lands and crops caused during training and manoeuvres; b) advise the Army Council on regulations designed to minimise accidents and damage; c) supervise and co-ordinate the work of any claims commissions set up to deal with claims in any theatre of war in which British forces were present; d) keep records of all claims and payments; and e) where necessary to consult and instruct the Treasury Solicitor, and his equivalents in Scotland and Northern Ireland, regarding claims falling within the jurisdiction of the Commission. The commission also dealt with claims by the War Department in respect of similar damage to its property. The members of the commission included representatives of outside bodies such as the Accident Offices Association. An assistant director of claims was appointed to each home command to deal with claims other than those concerning damage to land or crops, which were dealt with by compensation officers attached to corps. Although originally established as a wartime body the Claims Commission continued after the Second World War. From 1946 it assumed responsibility for dealing with claims against other departments arising from traffic accidents (it had dealt with claims arising from Air Ministry and Royal Air Force traffic accidents at home since 1942). In 1949 the Claims Commission and Lands Branch of the War Office were constituted as a Directorate of the War Office under the comptroller of lands and claims, although the two continued to operate independently. At this time responsibility for claims arising from the use of land returned to the Lands Branch.
This series contains private letters and papers of Field Marshal Sir J L A Simmons RE. They relate mainly to his career in Turkey and the Middle East, especially during the Russo-Turkish war of 1877-1878, as British Military delegate to the Congress of Berlin in 1878 and immediately afterwards. Also includes, however, papers on eastern affairs and other matters in the 1850s and 1860s, on Russian military intentions in 1891-1896 and some on Simmon's mission to the Vatican in 1889, which followed his period of office as governor of Malta. Administrative history: Sir John Lintorn Arabin Simmons was born on 12th February 1821 in Somerset, the fifth son of Captain Thomas Simmons RA. He was educated at Elizabeth College, Guernsey and the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich. He joined the Royal Engineers in 1837 and rose steadily through the ranks. In 1846 he became Inspector of the Railways and then from 1851-1854 he was secretary to the Board of Trade's Railways department. From 1854-1856 he was HM Commissioner with the Ottoman army in the Crimea and he was present and active through several campaigns. The following year he was appointed British Commissioner for regulating the Turko-Russian border in Asia. From 1857-1860 he was consul-general in Warsaw and then he returned to England. From then until 1875 he was progressively commander of the Royal Engineers; Director of the School of Military Engineering and Governor of Royal Military Academy. In 1875 he was appointed as Inspector General of Fortifications; a post which he held until 1880. In 1878 he was attached to Lord Beaconsfield and Salisbury's special mission to the Congress of Berlin. Then in June 1880 he was appointed to assist Lord Odo Russell at the Berlin Conference on the Greek frontier question. In 1884 he was appointed Governor of Malta, and them from 1889-1890 envoy extraordinary and minister plenipoteniary to the Pope. He married twice; first in 1846 Ellen, daughter of John Lintorn Simmons; and then in 1856 Blanche Weston. He was made a Field Marshal in 1890 and died on 14th February 1903.
This series consists of correspondence and papers of the Board of Trade Railway Department, 1840 to 1846 and 1851 to 1919, the Railway Commissioners, 1846 to 1851, the Railways Divisions of the Ministry of Transport for the periods 1919 to 1941, 1946 to 1953, and 1959 to 1966, the Ministry of War Transport, 1941-1946, and of the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, 1953-1959. The papers relate to the peacetime regulation and wartime control of railways, to railway owned canals, tramways, underground railways and related services and to the central direction of wartime transport. The series includes bill papers and some associated plans. Administrative history: In 1919, the Ministry of Transport inherited the overall control of Britain's railways. In 1921, the restoration of the railways to private hands reduced the ministry's role to administrative supervision. In 1937, preparations for the possible outbreak of war led to the formation of a Public Utilities Division, later renamed Railways Division. This division brought both railways and railway-owned canals to government oversight. In 1947, railway nationalisation vested the principal railways of Great Britain into government ownership. Arrangement: Piece nos 1 to 2602 in this series are that portion of the inherited material which was not added to in the Ministry of Transport, including some created by the Railway Commissioners who constituted a gap in the Board of Trade control between 1846 and 1851. From piece nos 2603 the papers are either original files raised in the Ministry or inherited files added to after 1919, and for these items the list has been arranged under the subject headings shown in the MT 6 series list. The series list does not for the most part give piece descriptions being limited to the references of the registered files contained in each box. To discover the number of the required file it is first necessary to search the appropriate Indexes in Indexes and Registers of Correspondence in MT 7. A relevant entry in an Index will give a registered paper number; the Reader must then find that number in the associated Registers in that series, and trace forward in the column headed 'No. of subsequent communication'. If and when that column proves to be empty, provided the word 'Destroyed' has not been stamped in the 'Remarks' column, the papers should have been preserved on a file bearing the registered number of that entry. When applying for a file, Readers should include the box number in the document reference, e.g. 'MT 6/279/6201' where 'MT 6' is the series reference, '279' is the box number and '6201' the file number.
This series contains files of the Newcastle Central Office of the Ministry of National Insurance, the Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance, the Ministry of Social Security and the Department of Health and Social Security relating to policy and the administration of the Family Allowance Act 1945 and the various regulations made under that act. Administrative history: The family allowance scheme came into operation in 1946 following the passing of the Family Allowance Act in 1945. The Act provided for payment of an allowance for families of two or more children for the benefit of the family as a whole. Family allowances were usually paid by means of a book of weekly orders which were cashed at a post office chosen by the payee. The allowance was non-contributory and non-means tested, the cost was met entirely from taxation: in law it belonged to the wife in a two parent household but the orders were encashable by either husband or wife. Family allowances were payable from birth until the minimum school leaving age. In addition the allowance was payable whilst the child was in full time education or was an apprentice, initially until July following the child's fifteenth birthday: from 1 August 1956 to any date up to the eighteenth birthday and from 30 March 1964 to any date up to the nineteenth birthday. Parents were entitled to the allowance for their child as long as the child was living with them or they were contributing at least the minimum weekly rate the allowance in cash or kind towards the cost of providing for the child elsewhere. A child who was not their own could also be counted in their family provided the natural parent did not contribute at least the equivalent of the family allowance rate towards the maintenance of the child. A child who had been removed from the control of the parents or over whom a local authority had assumed parental rights was, in certain circumstances excluded from any family for allowances purposes. A child in the care of a local authority in other circumstances could continue to be included in a family provided maintenance payments at a rate equivalent to the family allowance rate were being made to the local authority. In April 1977 the family allowance scheme was replaced by the provisions of the Child Benefit Act.
Minutes and papers of the Poisons Board, together with some unregistered files of papers relating to poisons in the 1930s. Administrative history: The Poisons Board was established under the Pharmacy and Poisons Act 1933 and reconstituted under the Poisons Act 1972 (which came into operation in February 1978). A Technical Committee met between Board meetings, and from 1969 a Revision Committee considered the revision of the Poison Rules following the Medicines Act 1968. These two sub-committees were combined as the Revision and Technical Committee in 1973. The chair and two members of the Board are appointed by the Home Secretary, another sixteen members being appointed by other ministers, the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain and various other, mainly medical, organisations. The secretary and assistant secretary are Home Office staff, provided by the Dangerous Drugs Branch which is responsible for the supervision of the Poisons Acts and which has been part of the General Department (1933-1969, 1983-1987), Probation and After-care Department (1970-1981), Criminal Justice Department (1982), Criminal Policy Department (1987-1993) and Criminal Justice and Constitutional Department (1994-1995) The function of the Board is to advise the Home Secretary on matters relating to non-medical poisons. In particular it recommends which substances should be treated as poisons for the purposes of the Act (the Poisons List) and advises on the making and amendment of rules under s.7 of the Act (the Poisons Rules) with regard to the classification, packaging, labelling, sale and supply of listed poisons. In 1980 the Home Secretary established an Interdepartmental Working Party on Poisons Control to consider what changes were needed, given that European directives were increasingly making UK regulations superfluous. Despite initial expectations that the Poisons Board would be abolished, there was general agreement that there was still a role for a central advisory body. It has continued to meet, although the number of poisons coming within the remit of the Board has been reduced by two-thirds, the majority of poisons now being the responsibility of either the Health and Safety Executive or the Department of Trade and Industry.
The records of the board include minutes, warrants of appointments, correspondence concerning visits to the 0bservatory and reports by the Astronomer Royal. Administrative history: Visitors to the Royal Observatory, which had been established in 1675, were first appointed in 1710 as the result of the efforts of Isaac Newton, President of the Royal Society. A Royal Warrant was issued in December of that year appointing members of the Royal Society as 'constant Visitors' to superintend the work of the Observatory and to ensure that the astronomical observations were published; they were to report on the condition of the Observatory and its instruments and to make an inventory of those instruments. The first visitation took place on 1 Aug. 1713. The Royal Warrant of 1765 renewing the powers of the visitors was supplemented by a new set of regulations. Another Royal Warrant, issued two years later, ensured the future publication of the Greenwich observations by authorising the printing and by instructing the Board of Ordnance to meet the cost. Regular publication began in 1774. 1774 was also the year in which the visitation became an annual event, there having been only six since 1710. By 1789 it had become a formal occasion and by 1810 it had developed into a social event, the president and the council being accompanied by fellows and friends. The numbers increased during the next twenty years until there were often as many as forty to fifty members, prominent statesmen and politicians among them. The royal warrant of May 1820 was accompanied by a letter confirming the Admiralty's liability for all charges. The first significant change in the constitution of the visitors was introduced by the royal warrant of September 1830, which extended membership to members of the Astronomical Society of London, founded in 1820, and to the professors of astronomy at Oxford and Cambridge. The Hydrographer of the Navy was added in 1858, thus strengthening the position of the Admiralty. Subsequently, the secretaries of the board were nominees of the Hydrographer. The last visitation in the traditional style was held in June 1939 and the last visitation of all was conducted in June 1964. The following year, with the transfer of the Royal Observatory to the Science Research Council, the board was dissolved by royal warrant.
This series contains records of the Security Division and related departments relating to a variety of issues concerning the formulation, implementation and monitoring of the Civil Aviation Authority's security policies; including personnel, aerodrome/ airports and technical security aspects. Includes JQ series files presumably inherited from the Department of Trade and Industry. Administrative history: Security measures for the National Air Traffic Control Service (originally based in Woburn Place, London) seems to have been formally introduced in December 1962 when the security handbooks and regulations of the Ministry of Aviation and the Air Ministry were revised. This coincided with the creation of the National Air Traffic Control Service (NATCS) in the same year. Prior to this date, the Ministry of Supply Security Handbook was used extensively by these departments. A formal agreement to create a Security Branch was made between the Chief Security Officer of the Air Ministry and the Chief Executive of Air Traffic Control (Ministry of Aviation) in December 1962. A new Ministry of Aviation Security Division would have overall responsibility for NATCS security arrangements whereby each branch of NATCS employed a security officer. Ministry of Aviation directorates were also to have Branch Security Liaison Officers who were to collate and coordinate security policy. CNATS staff also had to comply with the Ministry of Defence Manual 4 security instructions as they invariably had to work on classified military information. The Department of Trade and Industry took over the NATCS in 1970. Each branch was allocated a Branch Security Officer, responsible for the supervision of security standards, and a Duty Security Officer to carry out inspection duties. DTI security instructions and notices were issued by the Branch Security Officers. From 1970, air traffic security relating to distinct groupings were separated out and allocated to staff from these groups; rather than administered by NATCS staff. These groups are identified as the Department of Trade and Industry, Royal Air Force, Ministry of Defence (Air Force Department (Civilian)) and the Royal Navy. The Civil Aviation Authority developed its security along consistent organisation wide safety and security policies and has developed sophisticated safety and security management systems. Discreet security branches were created during the 1980s. In 1996 the Security Department of the National Air Traffic Services Ltd (a wholly owned subsidiary of the Civil Aviation Authority) took over the Authority's security functions, advising on physical security, counter-terrorism, contingency planning and security education and investigating major and routine security / criminal incidents. Arrangement: Arrangement is by chronological order by accession as records were not originally kept in former reference order.
Local Education Authority returns made under s 28 of the Education Act 1918 and s155 of the Education Act 1921 to the Board of Education, as an attempt to obtain a census of private schools. The information available in this series is uneven. Most of the Forms 451G for Educational Institutions concerned with Art, Commerce or Professional Training have survived. Replies to circular 1157 are reasonably complete, but the list of schools and educational institutions known to the Board are not available for all areas. Some authorities added accommodation figures and age range, and a few continued to submit lists up to 1944. The information for Welsh areas is largely non-existent before 1930. It comprises details of individual schools and a number of Forms 451G (which escaped destruction) for elementary and secondary schools; Glamorgan provided detailed lists from 1924 to 1944. Administrative history: Provision for the collection of information respecting schools was made under Section 28 of the Education Act, 1918 re-enacted in Section 155 of the Education Act, 1921. Under these Acts it became the duty of the responsible persons concerned to furnish the Board of Education, on Form 451G, with the name, address and a short description of every school or educational institution not in receipt of grant. Local Education Authorities were asked in Circular 1157 (22 April 1920) to conduct a survey and complete the list of private schools and educational institutions already known to the board. The list excluded schools in receipt of grant from the Board of Education or the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries; elementary schools certified as efficient and secondary schools recognised as efficient; Universities and University Colleges; Poor Law Schools and schools certified under Part IV of the Children Act, 1908, and educational establishments administered by the Army Council or Admiralty. The board recognised that attempts under existing circumstances to establish a register of schools falling outside its regulations, would prove ineffective. Arrangement: The Returns are arranged in two sections, for England and Wales, in alphabetical order for counties.
Printed Ministry of Education inspectorate reports on the school meals service within each educational authority together with copies of the minutes of meetings between the inspectors and the authorities. Subjects covered in the reports included the nutritional value of the meals, the kitchens and utensils and the supervision of the kitchen staff and the children. Those files for England cover the years 1956-1965, and for Wales 1954-1961. Administrative history: Meals have been provided in schools since the beginning of the century and the Education (Provision of Meals) Act 1906 was introduced with the object of ensuring that children attending public elementary schools should not be prevented from profiting by the education offered because of lack of food. Until the outbreak of the Second World War, meals in elementary schools were provided almost exclusively for needy children. In 1939 it became national policy to provide a main mid-day meal in school for all children whose parents wanted them to have it. From 1940, local education authorities (LEAs) were encouraged to extend and improve the meals service by the introduction of a Government grant of 70% and later 90% of expenditure on the service and by special priority in the supply of rationed and non-rationed food, premises and equipment. Advice as to the nutritional content of meals was given in Board of Education Circular 1571 (1941). As a result of these measures a million school dinners a day were being served by 1942 and 1.85 million a day by 1945. Plans were rapidly produced for a range of standard prefabricated kitchen/dining rooms, some of which are still in use. The Education Act 1944 gave LEAs a statutory duty to provide school meals for all primary and secondary school pupils who wanted them, and the 1945 edition of the 'Provision of Milk and Meals Regulations' set out required standards for these meals. The number of meals served continued to rise to about 5 million a day in 1972. Full financial responsibility for the school meals service passed to the LEAs in April 1967 and the Inspectorate ceased to have a direct interest in the service. The content of meals etc was then commented on only as part of normal school inspections. Arrangement: Alphabetical order of counties followed by county boroughs, with a separate section for Wales.
Local education authority files on various aspects of the school health and medical services, including files on school clinics and child guidance. The earliest surviving papers of this general series of LEA files are reports by HMIs and the Ministry's medical officers on authorities' administration of the school health service (circa 1930). Other early papers include matters arising in connection with part VII of the Education Act 1921. Most pieces in this series, however, commence with the 1938 LEA special service staffing returns, and lead on to the rather meagre second world war records, including replies to Circular 1490, School Health Services in War-Time; various staffing arrangements and medical treatment of evacuated children. Subsequent papers are, inter alia, those generated in connection with the Education Act 1944, the Handicapped Pupils and School Health Service Regulations 1945, and the effects of the National Health Service Act 1946 on the school health service (Circulars 29, 41 and 179 respectively). Administrative history: Consultation with the Ministry of Health took place frequently where the duties of the two departments overlapped. Section 48(3) of the Education Act 1944 gave rise to considerable correspondence with LEAs in connection with the payments to voluntary hospitals, and led to the issue of Circular 102 in 1946. Subsequently the section was amended in the Education (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1948. A proliferation of school health clinics resulted from the Report of the Committee on Maladjusted Children (Underwood Committee) 1955 and the issue of Circular 347 in 1959. Replies to the latter indicated progress made towards setting up a comprehensive child guidance service. Progress was monitored by occasional inspections of clinics by Ministry medical officers. As the school health service became established provision became largely routine and this is reflected in the progressively less important material in the files. Arrangement: The A file series, which includes annual reports of school medical officers and school dental service reports, is arranged in county and county borough order.
This series contains files of the Consumer Safety Unit within the Department of Prices and Consumer Protection (DPCP) and the Department of Trade. Some files are inherited from the Home Office (HO) and there has been much re-registration from prefixes HSY and MSC. The files relate to safety issues concerning products as various as, for example, aerosols, asbestos, baby harnesses, oil heaters, solvents and skateboards. Also covered is the Consumer Protection Act 1961. The series also contains papers of the Standing Interdepartmental Committee on Accidents in the Home and of the Advisory Committee on Household Electrical Equipment. Administrative history: From 1 October 1974, the Home Office transferred to the Department of Prices and Consumer Protection (DPCP) its responsibility for: 1) Home safety and safety of consumer goods, including the making of regulations under the Consumer Protection Act 1961. 2) Fire hazards in consumer goods. 3) Safety matters relating to the sale of fireworks. The aim of the transfer was to continue the bringing together of the administration of the government's interests in consumer affairs. The staff transferred from the Home Office formed Branch 3D of the DPCP's existing Fair Trading Division, which was already responsible for general competition policy and consumer protection (other than weights and measures and consumer credit). By May 1975, the creation of a fourth branch within the Fair Trading Division led to the loss of section B from Branch 3, and to Branch 3D becoming Branch 3C, but without any change in its responsibilities. In 1977 a Consumer Safety Unit (CSU) was established within Branch 3. With the amalgamation of the Departments of Trade and of Prices and Consumer Protection in 1979, the Consumer Safety Unit became part of the Metrology, Quality Assurance, Safety and Standards Division (MQS). In May 1982, the MQS was disbanded and the CSU became part of the Competition Policy, Tourism and Other Services Division (CTS). Later in 1982 the division was renamed the Competition Policy and Service Industries Division when its responsibilities for tourism were transferred to another division. The following year it was renamed the Competition Policy, Consumer Credit and Safety Division in the newly reformed Department of Trade and Industry.
Returns from Universities and University Colleges in receipt of grants. These returns give details of governing bodies, faculties, regulations, degrees, staff, students, finance and expenditure. The early returns were published. In 1967 the title of the returns was changed to Statistics of Education volume 6: Universities. The returns contain a variety of information on the cost per student in each institution, the ages of admission and the type of education received. The returns also record the amount of annual and non recurrent grants made in one financial year. The statistics of education volume 6 (universities) first published in 1968 replaced the return from universities and university colleges in receipt of Treasury grants. From 1980 there are three volumes of university statistics published by the university statistical record. Volume one deals with students and staff, volume two deals with first appointment of graduates after gaining their qualifications and volume three deals with university finance. Administrative history: The creation of the University Grants Committee in 1919, presented a suitable opportunity to introduce a uniform system for presenting the chief facts and figures relating to the universities and colleges of the whole country. This was done with the co-operation of the institutions concerned and a schedule of enquiry was established on which the present returns are based. A uniform financial year was established extending from 1 August to 31 July. It covered the operations of the academic financial year and allowed for the preparation of statistics and auditing of accounts before the pressure of administrative business in the following session became insistent. There were two exceptions to this uniform financial year; the University of London and the University of Wales. This uniform financial year continued until 1965 when information collected on students and staff was obtained at the end of the autumn term and not the end of the academic year. This resulted in the financial information for one year being published at the same time as the information about staff and student numbers from the following year.
This series contains registered files of the Safety Data and Analysis Unit (series 9/66) and other file series probably originating from the Safety and General Group and the Accidents Investigation Branch. Includes reports and computer print-outs relating to follow-up action to accidents / occurrence reports. Also contains some files, which were unregistered but thought to have originated in the Unit. Administrative history: The Safety Data and Analysis Unit operated from 1981 to 1991 when its functions were transferred to the Safety Data Department. The Safety Data and Analysis Unit had inherited many of its functions from Safety and General Group started in 1945. It also inherited some responsibilities from the Accidents Investigation Branch, which was created in 1918 as part of the Royal Flying Corps. Civil aviation accidents were initially investigated by the Accidents Investigation Branch. The main purpose was to establish the cause of an accident. The function of the Safety Data and Analysis Unit was to collect, analyse and disseminate flight safety information. It received reports from many different sources, such as the aviation industry, operators, manufacturers, and over-haulers, as well as safety organisations and some foreign and private aviation owners. The objectives of the Unit were to use the reports to keep the Civil Aviation Authority advised of actual and potential hazards to flight safety; to pass on information to the wide network of those who supply reports; to assess safety implications; and to ensure that appropriate action was taken. Information obtained from reports was eventually computerised and was available for answering on-the-spot enquiries from the industry and to enable more elaborate studies and analyses. The Safety Data and Analysis Unit was initially created to administer the Mandatory Occurrences Reporting Scheme introduced on the 1st January 1976; a formal means of ensuring that its objectives were met. The Unit continued to maintain close liaison with the Accidents Investigation Branch (and successors) of the Department of Transport. This ensured that any necessary follow-up action after an accident could be considered and taken before the publication of the Chief Inspector of Accidents official report. Currently, the Mandatory Occurrence Reporting Scheme is operated by the Safety Data Department of the Civil Aviation Authority Safety Regulation Group at Gatwick (the direct successor of the Safety Data and Analysis Unit, which was renamed in 1991). Arrangement: Former reference where applicable. Otherwise arranged chronologically.
Assorted records of reformatories, industrial schools, approved schools, remand homes and voluntary homes, including registers of admissions, discharges and licences, diaries and logbooks, and returns of children detained under the industrial Schools Act 1866. Administrative history: Before 1933, approved schools were titled reformatories or industrial schools depending on the age of the inmates. Industrial schools (for children under 14) and reformatories (for children aged 14 to 18) were set up following the Youthful Offenders Act 1854, and the work of industrial schools was further defined in the Industrial Schools Acts of 1857 and 1866. Industrial schools were established'for the better training of poor and neglected children' who were'in danger of becoming criminals' (Industrial Schools Act 1857). Children were housed, fed, clothed, educated to an elementary level, and given some industrial or agricultural training. Many of the schools relied on voluntary committees and private benevolence. They received per capita grants from the State for children committed by magistrates. In 1860, following an amendment to the Industrial Schools Act 1857, the Home Office assumed responsibility for the supervision of the running of the schools, and provided some financial assistance. Reformatories and industrial schools were renamed approved schools by the Children's Acts of 1932 and 1933. Remand and voluntary homes have a history broadly contiguous with that of reformatories and industrial schools. Remand homes were created to accommodate children awaiting the decision of a court with regard to committal to an approved school, or those children under a place of safety order. The latter were more generally placed in foster homes or voluntary homes. If no foster home or remand home was available, children removed from their homes by order of a juvenile court would be boarded in voluntary homes. Voluntary homes (ie those run by voluntary organisations) provided for a large proportion of children who required boarding. These homes were mainly unsupervised unless they received public subscriptions (which brought them within the purvieu of the Home Office) or were certified by the Ministry of Health as suitable for the reception of Poor Law children. Many children were also boarded in workhouses for long periods, in spite of regulations laid down in the Poor Law Institution Order 1913. The tangled administrative situation is summed up in the report of the Child Care Committee 1945 (Curtis Committee). The recommendations of this committee resulted in the Children Act 1948 which considerably rationalised and reorganised child care.
Volumes containing a history of the administration of enemy property during and after the Second World War, a responsibility exercised initially jointly by the Treasury and the Board of Trade and later by the Board of Trade alone. The volumes were intended primarily as a record for the use of the department to explain the difficulties encountered in attempting to control and administer personal money and property and the pitfalls to be avoided in the future. Administrative history: The Trading with the Enemy Branch (TWEB) was established in September 1939 to administer, under the direction of the Treasury and Board of Trade, the Trading with the Enemy Act 1939 which was subsequently amended by Defence Regulations. At the beginning it was staffed by both departments, and staff reported to either the Treasury, the Commercial Relations and Treaty Department of the Board of Trade or the Finance Department of the Board of Trade, according to the subject being dealt with. In 1942 it was decided to concentrate trading with the enemy work in TWE and to raise its status to a Department; although it remained a joint department the Board of Trade assumed responsibility for all establishment matters. Also in September 1939, under the same legislation, the Board of Trade appointed Sir Ernest Fass, the Public Trustee, as Custodian of Enemy Property for England (CEP). Similar appointments were made for Scotland and Northern Ireland. In 1948 the branch's title was altered to the Administration of Enemy Property Department (AEPD) when its work was merged with that of the Custodian of Enemy Property under the various Peace Treaty orders. The office of Custodian had been established by Order in Council in September 1939 and was held at first by the Public Trustee, but on the formation of the AEPD the Public Trustee was replaced by an official of the Board of Trade. In July 1957 the remaining work of AEP was transferred to Finance Division. Subsequently it became the Enemy Property Branch, which by 1966 was part of the Finance Division. By 1970 the branch had ceased to exist and its residual work passed to the Finance and Economic Appraisal Division of the Department of Trade and Industry.
This series consists of, for the most part, an annual series of official memoranda used within the Medical Department successively of the Privy Council and the Local Government Board together with copies of reports of local inspections into infectious diseases. These papers are not a homogeneous collection. More than half the volumes can be associated with either Dr George Buchanan or his son Dr George Seaton Buchanan. The basis of this group is composed of Dr George Buchanan's personal collection of official papers. He brought together, initially for his own use, both office memoranda, used within the Medical Department of the Privy Council and later the Local Government Board, and copies of local reports of inspections into infectious diseases, made by departmental inspectors. The series continues as an annual collection of similar papers certainly for the use of the Medical Department and probably for the use of the Medical Officer for the time being. The volumes contain manuscript annotations by successive Medical Officers: Buchanan, Thorne, Power and Newsholme. It is clear that separate sets of the reports of local inspections were made up, initially in the 1880s, for individual inspectors at the Medical Department of the LGB. The binding of these sets, if original, usually bears the name of the inspector for whom it was put together. The later volumes in this series have clear associations with Dr George Seaton Buchanan (1869-1935) and contain correspondence relating to food regulations under the Public Health Act 1907 and also include a set of papers of George Seaton Buchanan in his capacity as British Delegate to the Committee of Office International d'Hygiene Publique Paris 1919-1933. Administrative history: Dr (later Sir) George Buchanan (1831-1895) was employed by the Privy Council Medical Department as an occasional inspector from 1861. The appointment became permanent and full time in 1869. Two years later he transferred, with the rest of the Medical Department, to the Local Government Board, and took on the duties of Assistant Medical Officer. He was promoted to Medical Officer to the Board at the beginning of 1880 and held the post until his retirement in 1892. Dr (later Sir) George Seaton Buchanan (1869-1935) began his career as a Medical Inspector to the Local Government Board in 1895 and was its Chief Inspector of Foods from 1906 to 1911. When the Ministry of Health was formed in 1919 he became Senior Medical Officer until his retirement in 1934.
This series consists of files of the Mechanical Engineering Staff (including papers which were transferred to the Mechanical Engineering Staff on its establishment), the Mechanical Engineering Division and the Vehicle Engineering Division. They relate to the mechanical fitness of motor vehicles and their components, the investigation of road accidents, the provision of winter maintenance vehicles for motorways and trunk roads, and the running of motorway maintenance compounds. The series also contains the papers of the'Cars for Cities' working group to suggest future trends for car design in metropolitan areas. Papers concerning the pre-war Conferences with Certifying Officers are records of the earlier Roads Department of the Ministry of Transport. Administrative history: In 1958 the Mechanical Engineering Staff was established as part of the Highways Engineering Staff. When the Road Safety, Road Transport and Vehicle Regulation Division was set up in 1960, the Mechanical Engineering Staff was transferred to it. This Division was dissolved in 1965 and a Mechanical Engineering Division was established with responsibility for engineering aspects of vehicle safety and amenity standards for road vehicles. The Mechanical Engineering Division remained a separate Division on the establishment of the Department of the Environment in 1970. It was retitled the Vehicle Engineering Division in 1972 and was transferred to the newly established Department of Transport in 1976. Mechanical Engineering Staff are primarily responsible for advising the Department on all technical matters relating to the design, construction, equipment, use and maintenance of motor vehicles, with particular reference to safety. They also co-ordinate the work of local and regional area technical staffs of professional engineers and vehicle examiners who are concerned with, inter alia, the inspection and certification of goods vehicles for mechanical fitness; the operation of road-side checks; the supervision of the activities of authorised examiners appointed for this purpose under the Road Traffic Acts, and the certification of technical information required under international agreements in respect of commercial vehicles proceeding abroad. They are also responsible for the development and provision of special equipment for snow clearing and gritting operations of motorways and trunk roads, and for the design of maintenance compounds on these roads.
This series includes files of the divisions of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Aviation dealing with civil air services and international relations in this field. The subject matter of the files includes: agreements and negotiations relating to international civil aviation services British involvement in international organisations and committees concerning civil aviation, including the International Civil Aviation Organisation emergency planning and civil defence, including the use of civil aircraft as troop transports aircraft testing and registration, including policy relating to the development of aircraft types such as the Comet and the Princess navigational aids United Kingdom airports and heliports the Berlin airlift policy relating to air accidents the carriage of goods by air the regulation of air transport companies, particularly the British Overseas Airways Corporation air traffic control arrangements club flying civil aviation legislation aircrews licensing the taxation of aircraft and aviation fuel correspondence with Civil Air Attachés and Advisors policy papers concerning the Air Transport Licensing Board The series also includes the minutes of the Air Transport Advisory Council on Air Services, and the minutes of and evidence submitted to the Committee of Inquiry into the Civil Air Transport Industry (Edwards Committee). The Air Services and International Relations Division used the AS, ASCH, ASR and CR file series, but some of these papers were re-registered in the EL and EM series. The Aviation Overseas Policy Division used the EB and ED series, of which the EB series includes some re-registered AS and ED files. Administrative history: On the establishment of the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Air Services Division was formed and was responsible for the encouragement and development of British civil aviation and relations with air service operators. An International Relations Division was established in 1947 to deal with the Department's international responsibilities, especially representation within the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). These divisions continued under the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation, but on the formation of the Ministry of Aviation their functions were distributed among a number of new divisions, including the Aviation Overseas Policy Division, the Aviation Economic Planning Division and the Aviation General Policy Division.
Counterparts of printed indentures issued by Sir Walter Raleigh for the sale of wine, under a monopoly granted by letters patent in 1583 and renewed in 1588. The licence allowed its holder to buy and sell wine without restriction of quantity or quality, but with price restriction on wines from the Bordeaux region, sack and malmsey. No fee was mentioned in the earlier licences; instead it was set out in a separate bond. However, within two years the terms of the bond were recited in the licence itself, securing an annual payment to Richard Brown, Raleigh's lessee. After the renewal of the patent in 1588, the payments were increased and secured to Raleigh himself. The licences were granted to one or more persons in survivorship, normally to trade within their town of residence. Most early licence holders were vintners, but in later years, yeomen, gentlemen, merchants and various tradesmen occur. The series is incomplete, the few documents which survive from the later years being particularly fragmentary. Administrative history: In 1570 Sir Edward Horsey received a patent to grant licences to keep taverns and sell wine in York, Coventry, Exeter, Norwich, Bristol, Kingston upon Hull, Ipswich, Southampton, Sandwich, Harwich, Colchester, Worcester, Leicester, Brightlingsea and Greenwich to the number limited by statute in 1553. Additional taverns in London, Westminster, Chester and Oxford, together with new ones in every thoroughfare, clothing town, haven town and fisher town were permitted in 1576. Abuses of these patents were alleged and in 1583 Sir Walter Raleigh received a new grant replacing Horsey's. It empowered him to approve Horsey's licences, replace those that were defective, and complete the number allowed, for a period of 21 years. Horsey had received only half of the fines imposed for breach of the licencing regulations, but Raleigh was granted an annual fee from each licencee as additional revenue. Raleigh leased his patent to Richard Brown; then alleging abuse of it, surrendered it and received another in 1588, this time for 31 years. He surrendered this in 1602. Arrangement: By regnal year, and then chronologically within each county.
These files formed a new series, distinct from the Ministry of Food's SUG series, although some of the earlier files were re-registered from other file series. They are concerned with all aspects of sugar as a commodity, including supply, production, distribution and use, international agreements and the production of derivatives and substitutes, the Sugar Act 1956, the British Sugar Corporation, and the Sugar Board. Administrative history: Government interest in the sugar beet industry began with a subsidy introduced for a ten-year period in 1925. Under the Sugar Industry (Reorganisation) Act 1936 the subsidy was made permanent and the sugar beet companies were amalgamated to form a state-aided British Sugar Corporation. The Act also established a Sugar Commission, set up on 27 May 1936. This body was charged with the duty of keeping under review the growing of sugar beet and the manufacture, refining, marketing and consumption of sugar, and also had important advisory duties. Its main functions were suspended in September 1939 and under the Sugar Industry Act 1942 all of them were transferred to the Ministry of Food. In 1955, the new Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food took over the Sugar Division. Since then, responsibility for beet and cane sugar (and also artificial sweeteners and isoglucose) has lain with the following divisions: Sugar (1955-1957); Sugar and Crop Production (1957-1959); Sugar and Manufactured Foods (1959-1963); Sugar, Tropical and Manufactured Foodstuffs (1963-1969); Sugar and Tropical Foodstuffs (1969-1972); Sugar (1972-1982); Sugar, Oils and Fats (1982-1990); Sugar, Tobacco, Oils and Fats (1990-1991); and, Sugar, Tobacco, Oilseeds and Proteins (1991-). In addition, the Ministry of Food's Finance Department Sugar Division came across to the United Ministry as the Sugar (Finance) Division, in which form it remained until 1959 when it was absorbed into the Finance Department. Direct trading in sugar was now carried on by the British Sugar Corporation, over which, under the Sugar Act 1956, the ministry had certain powers of direction and control. That act also set up a Sugar Board to regulate the marketing of sugar produced in the Commonwealth and imported into Britain, and to take over from the Ministry responsibility for deficiency payments to the corporation. The Sugar Board was dissolved in February 1977, and its property, rights and liabilities transferred to the ministry. Arrangement: The files are arranged in SUG reference order within these accessions: MAF 268/1 -132, MAF 268/133 -144, MAF 268/145 -209, MAF 268/210 -245, MAF 268/246 -248.
Files relating to the work of the committees set up again in the 1950s to monitor the operations of the main agricultural marketing boards, in particular the Consumers' Committee for Great Britain and the Committee of Investigation for Great Britain. Administrative history: Various ministerial committees had been instituted to monitor the procedures of the main marketing boards under the Agricultural Marketing Acts 1931, 1933, 1949 and 1958. Members of these committees were nominated to represent various parts of the agricultural industry, the ministry and consumers. One of the most important organisations was the Consumers' Committee for Great Britain, supported by the English, Welsh and Scottish Committees. Their main function was to assess the effect of the regulations promulgated by marketing boards on the habits/convenience of the product purchasers. The actual assessment of the force and justice of a complaint, from whatever source, against a marketing board, fell to the Committee of Investigation for Great Britain. Since most of the complaints came from product producers, this committee became regarded as an unofficial arbiter. It had ready access to ministers but it had no means of imposing sanctions. Although the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAFF) acted as an administrative agent for instituting the committees, providing venues for their meetings, monitoring their work and presenting their reports to the relevant minister, the committees themselves were expected to be completely independent. This led to tensions as to the amount and type of information the ministry should supply to committees, although eventually guide-lines were agreed. In the immediate post-war period MAFF was interested in the potential and possible growth of co-operatives and several files in this series deal with the setting up, terms of reference and ultimate failure of the Advisory Committee on Training Courses for Staffs of Co-operatives. The proposed courses favoured administrative rather than practical work and, since co-operatives tended to be small units, releasing staff for the periods of time proposed, proved difficult.
This series contains records of the Middlesex Appeal Tribunal, 1916 to 1919, minute books and selected papers of the Central Tribunal, 1915 to 1922 and selected papers of the Veterinary Tribunal, 1918. Also contains a printed set of minutes of the Central Medical War Committee, 1916 to 1917. Pieces 1-144 were transferred from PRO 10/162-281. Administrative history: In October 1915 local military service tribunals were appointed by local authorities under the instructions of the Local Government Board and the Scottish Office to consider the postponement of the calling up for military service of voluntarily attested men. They were part of the administrative provisions to co-ordinate military service requirements with those of civil departments and vital industries. In November a Central Tribunal was set up as a final committee to which the recommendations of local tribunals in cases involving occupational rather than personal grounds were to be forwarded for final decision and to which in other cases appeals could be made against the decisions of local tribunals. After the passing of the Military Service Act 1916, which introduced compulsory military service, the local tribunals and the central tribunal were made statutory bodies, and intermediate tribunals called appeal tribunals were set up in counties or combinations of counties to divert the bulk of appeals from the Central Tribunal; appeal to the Central Tribunal existed only by leave of the appeal tribunals. Members of the Central Tribunal and the appeal tribunals were appointed by the crown. The tribunals were bound by regulations issued under the Military Service Acts by the Local Government Board, and the Central Tribunal received the assistance of staff of the board and of the registrar general. The Central Tribunal also acted as an advisory body to the Army Council respecting men who had been sentenced by court martial to terms of imprisonment for breach of military discipline, and who pleaded a conscientious objection to undertaking combatant or non-combatant service as a reason for their refusal to obey military orders. The Central Tribunal ceased to meet as a body on January 1919, but its life was prolonged to enable its members to fulfil the duty imposed on them by the Representation of the People Act 1918 of issuing certificates in appropriate cases to exempt conscientious objectors from loss of voting rights for a period of five years after the war. Note: A project to catalogue and digitise the records in this series was completed in January 2014, with funding provided by the Friends of The National Archives (FTNA) and the Federation of Family History Societies (FFHS) which has allowed this collection to be made available as free downloads for a 10 year period.
The records in this series record the decrees and orders of the Preston District Registry from 1862 to 1955. Also incorporated are the decrees and orders of the Preston Registry's Blackburn office ( PL 36/42-54), which branched off in 1893 and re-merged with Preston in 1948. The decrees and orders of the Chancery Court to be found in this series are comparable to those for Manchester and Liverpool respectively, though not surprisingly the volume of business is far smaller than in those booming cities. The format of the entries in these books is uniform: each supplies a date, the names of the parties in a Chancery Suit, the process followed in the case, and the decree or order, subscribed 'by the Court'. There are cross references on many entries which, with the date, should lead to entries in the cause books. These court orders are intended to resolve a case and are not to be confused with the District Registrar's orders, which regulated the court's proceedings. The series is indexed, either in individual indexes accompanying the orders in each book or, later, in consolidated index volumes. Thus PL 36/41 covers Preston cases from 1927 to 1963, and PL 36/55 continues from 1964 to 1971. The volume PL 36/55 also initially covers Blackburn from 1927 to 1947, and was clearly used for the reunited registry from 1964 because it offered so much space, whereas PL 36/41 was nearly full. PL 36/41 and PL 36/55 have the same layout. They start with an index of the plaintiffs' surnames, listed under its alphabet letter, but in order of appearance, not in strict alphabetical order. The number then supplied is a stamped page number in the body of the book, which leads to an entry of the date of the case, the names of both parties, and the nature of the ensuing court order, followed by the filing date. Arrangement: The records are arranged in two series, one for Preston and the other for Blackburn. The Preston orders entered from 1862 to 1955 are in PL 36/1-40, plus an index register covering 1927 to 1963 in PL 36/41. The Blackburn orders from 1893 to 1947 are contained in PL 36/42-54, plus an index register covering 1927 to 1947 for Blackburn in PL 36/55 with Preston, including Blackburn, 1964 to 1971 added.
Registered files created and inherited by the Finance, Home and General (2FH) Division of the Treasury. The files concern borrowing abroad by local authorities and government agencies, export finance, exchange control and general policy on overseas investment. Administrative history: The Finance, Home and General (2FH) Division of the Treasury was established in 1962. It was concerned with monetary policy in all its aspects. In consultation with the Bank of England, it advised on the need for particular monetary measures and their timing, and on the terms and timing of Government borrowing in relation to the requirements of the Exchequer, of the market, and of monetary policy, especially policy on interest rates. A special aspect of the responsibility was the organisation of lending to the Exchequer by the small saver. This covered schemes such as savings certificates, premium savings bonds, deposits with the Post Office Savings Bank, and the ordinary departments of the Trustees Savings Bank banks, and involved in advising on the type of media to be made available to the public, and on the terms of their issue. The division also dealt with the administration and regulation of the media, and with relations with the National and Scottish Savings Committees who organise and encourage savings through groups established throughout the country. The division was also responsible for the Exchange Control Act 1947. This required day-to-day contact with the Bank of England, who acted as Treasury agents in the execution of exchange control on such matters as United Kingdom investment outside the sterling area, proposals for foreign investment in the United Kingdom, and other capital movements. The division also worked in consultation with the Chief Statistician and with Finance (Statistics) Division, particularly on monetary statistics. Following the Treasury re-organisation in 1962, 2HF Division was renamed 2FH. Arrangement: Arrangement is by former file reference. Previous files with the 2HF prefix were incorporated into the 2FH series. Some pre-1962 papers are included in some 2FH files because of this re-registration.
An accumulation of some of the private papers of Field Marshal Viscount Wolseley including accounts of the war with China, 1860, the Ashanti (1873-1874) and Zulu (1879) wars and the Sudan expedition of 1884. The series also contains a Cavalry Brigade Order Book of Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Pyndar Beauchamp Walker, a colleague of Wolseley on the China expedition. and some entry books of telegrams for the period when Wolseley was Adjutant General of the Army. Some of the papers were for Wolseley's personal use, and were bound into volumes which contain manuscript material, either written by Wolseley himself or transcribed by a clerk. Administrative history: Garnet Joseph Wolseley was born in Dublin on 4 June 1833. In March 1852 he was commissioned into the 12th (East Suffolk) Regiment of Foot, transferring to the 80th (Staffordshire Volunteers) shortly after. Following service in the Burmese War he was invalided home. He was promoted to lieutenant and - after a short period with the 84th (York and Lancaster) Regiment - moved to the 90th Light Infantry (Perthshire Volunteers), with which he served in the Crimea. By the time he was 45 years of age Wolseley was a lieutenant-general, and had seen further service in India during the mutiny (1857-1858); during the China War (1860-1861); in Canada during the Fenian raids (1866) and the Riel rebellion (1870); in Africa during the Ashanti War (1873-1874), the Zulu campaign (1879), the Egyptian expedition (1882) and the Sudan Expedition to relieve General Gordon. For his services in Africa he was thanked three times by both houses of parliament, and was first raised to the peerage and later created a viscount. During Wolseley's time in Canada he wrote The Soldier's Pocket-Book for Field Service , which was published in 1869 and revised many times subsequently; latterly, the British army's field service regulations owed much to Wolseley's original. On his return to England Wolseley was appointed adjutant-general to the forces. While in office he founded the intelligence department, was a firm supporter of the staff college and suggested - at the time in vain - the creation of a general staff and a ministry of defence. After commanding the army in Ireland (1890-1894) he was promoted to field-marshal and became commander-in-chief in 1895. He resigned from office in 1901 - during the latter stages of the Boer War - handing over to Lord Frederick Roberts. Wolseley died in France on 25th March 1913, and was buried in St Paul's Cathedral.
Board of Education and successors' Local Education Authority staffing files relating to a system of approved establishments of teachers ('staffing quotas') introduced in 1927. The records in this series consist of files for the counties, for county boroughs, and for boroughs and urban districts 'excepted' under part III of the Education Act 1902. Files in this series dating from before 1935 contain annual returns submitted by Local Education Authorities of teaching staff and numbers of children on the roll. Still earlier papers in the series contain material relating to the recognition, under the code of Grant Regulations, of unqualified and supplementary teachers employed by Local Education Authorities with urban areas, and questions of staffing arrangements arising from proposed changes in the conditions for the staffing of public elementary schools set out in the Board of Education's circulars 1325 (1924) and 1360 (1925). In addition this series contains special wartime staffing and attendance returns, papers concerned with the problems of staffing arising from the evacuation of schools, and also with the special measures taken by the board, as set out in their circular 1591 (1942), to allocate the output of teachers leaving training colleges. Files beyond 1944 cover the staffing of both primary and secondary schools. Two sample files have been preserved from the period 1945-1955, covering the Middlesex and Surrey areas. Three sample files have been preserved from the period 1962-1970: these concern one (rural) county, Dorset; one London borough, Ealing, the file for which makes reference to immigrant pupils; and one county borough, Bradford. Administrative history: With the issue of the Board of Education circular 1427 in 1933, Local Education Authority staffing estimates became subject to critical examination. Hitherto the board had examined the establishments of teachers proposed by the authorities on the basis of HM Inspectors' general impressions without any attempt to scrutinise the staffs of individual schools. Now, the desire to achieve parity in the staffing complements of schools of comparable size and organisation, combined with the knowledge that the 'national staffing quota' agreed by the Board of Education in the previous years had corresponded less and less with the actual number of teachers in post, and combined also with the anticipated fall in the number of pupils in the schools, underlined the need for a stricter control over the number of teachers to be employed by each authority. The more detailed system of examination introduced at this time had, however, to be abandoned in 1939, when local education authorities were asked to discuss their staff proposals with HM Inspectors. 'Elementary' education ceased to exist as such following the Education Act 1944. Arrangement: By counties of England and Wales.
The rolls in this series contain the Pipe Office accounts of collectors of customs at English ports. The accounts detail the sums raised by the wool and cloth duties, namely the ancient custom of 1275 and the new custom of 1303 and 1347, the mutuum and the subsidy. Other duties collected at the ports were the wine duty of tunnage, and the general tax of poundage. Although the collectors were based at one port, the customs area they covered often stretched far beyond a single location. Administrative history: Until the reign of Edward I, customs accounts were enrolled on the Pipe Rolls, but from 23 Edw I customs accounts began to be enrolled separately. This may well be linked in some way to the outbreak of war with France in 1294; Edward I raised substantial amounts of money for his continental campaigns by manipulating export duties. In 1323, the Cowick ordinance commanded that all accounts 'foreign to' the ordinary accounts rendered by the sheriffs contained upon the Pipe Rolls should henceforth be enrolled separately. The imposition of the customs can be traced back to Edward I's appointment in 1266, while heir to the throne, as protector of foreign and native merchants. An agreement was made to levy duties on exports, which continued when Edward became king. There are five duties or customs whose accounts appear in the customs rolls: The Ancient Custom (1275): a duty of half a mark (6s 8d) on every sack of wool (364 lbs) exported; a duty of half a mark (6s 8d) on every three hundred fells (fleeces with skin); and a duty of one mark (13s 4d) on each last (200 hides) of leather. In 1275 this replaced the earlier customs, and was therefore originally known as the 'nova custuma', or new custom. However, it acquired its usual name of the ancient custom, 'magna et antiqua custuma', in 1303 when the subsequent 'new' duty was introduced. The New Custom (1303): negotiated by Edward I with foreign merchants only. They agreed to pay an extra 50% on the 1275 duties. One to two shillings was placed on cloth, depending on its grade, and 1s on a quintal of wax (about 100 lbs). Two shillings were placed on each dole or tun of wine (252 gallons), a duty which was known as tunnage. Finally, a duty of 3d in the pound (poundage) was placed on certain other goods imported or exported: goods sold by weight, fine cloth, animals, corn and general merchandise. In return, the foreign merchants were granted a 'Carta mercatoria', which gave them freedom to trade, regulated their status and exempted them from certain local taxes. The duty was collected from February 1303, until 9 October 1311, when it was abrogated by the Lords Ordainers. It was reimposed in July 1322, when Edward II had regained control of government. The new custom was extended in 1347, when a duty on imported cloth was added to its demands by the Great Council. The duty was a graduated one, with separate scales applied to native and alien merchants. There were three rates on each 'cloth of assize' (a regulation textile measurement). Native merchants paid 14d, 21d, or 28d, and alien merchants paid 21d, 31d, or 42d, depending on the dyestuffs used in the finishing of the cloth. The Mutuum: collected between July 1317 and Michaelmas 1318. An additional duty of 10s was paid by aliens on every sack of wool, every 300 wool fells and on every last of hides. Denizens paid half a mark (8s 6d) on corresponding quantities. The Subsidy: In the early accounts in E 356 , this refers to a duty identical to the mutuum, first collected during the year beginning Midsummer 1322. In later accounts it refers to any levy additional to either the ancient custom or the new custom; the rate of the tax is noted in the account concerned. Wine Custom (Tunnage): a duty of 2s imposed on every tun imported from 20 July 1322 onwards. Arrangement: There were originally 25 rolls in this series. By 1908 there were 29 pieces. The apparent creation of four extra pieces can accounted for by the fact that some of the later rolls were in several sections: E 356/19 and 20 are two sections of one roll, as are E 356/23 and 24, E 356/25, 26 and 27, and E 356/28 and 29. By 1923 there were 30 pieces as there are now, the extra piece probably being E 356/30, containing accounts dating from various reigns. Physical condition: Each roll is made up of a number of rotuli, sewn together at their heads, and comprising two membranes each. Often the foot of the dorse of a rotulus will include a summary of its contents.
This series comprises records of the Brompton Cemetery, including burial registers, common graves books, and stone ledgers, burial books and photographs. Administrative history: London's churchyards had been full to the point of overflowing since the plague years (1665-66). Such was the shortage of burial space in the city that parishes began to acquire land along the margins of the populated areas for use as burial grounds. The growth of London as a commercial centre from 1815, and the resultant rapid expansion of its population, severely challenged an already overburdened sanitary system. The 1832 cholera epidemic in London, highlighted the consequences of inadequate burial ground provision for such a large population concentration. The response from parliament was to support the creation of the first commercial cemetery - which was founded by the General Cemetery Company in 1832 at Kensal Green. Following the success of Kensal Green, West Norwood Memorial Park opened in 1837, Highgate in 1839, Brompton and Abney Park were both founded in 1840, All Saints (now known as Nunhead) opened in 1840 and Tower Hamlets in 1841. Government legislation in this short period had authorised the establishment of a total of seven large commercial cemeteries forming a ring around London. Brompton Cemetery In 1837, The West of London and Westminster Cemetery Company bought 40 acres of land from the estate of William Edwardes, 2nd Baron Kensington (1777-1852) in West Brompton. A design competition was held for the proposed cemetery. Benjamin Baud (assistant to the architect Sir Jeffry Wyatville) submitted the best designs for the buildings and walls; Stephen Geary was appointed architect; Isaac Finnemore and John Claudius Loudon (a garden designer and eminent horticultural writer) were the landscaping consultants. Brompton Cemetery was consecrated in 1840, but not all of the original 'garden-cemetery' design was realised, as The West of London and Westminster Cemetery Company ran into financial trouble. As was the case with each of the seven new large commercial cemeteries, Brompton created an appealing environment, relatively free of regulations or restrictions. Provision was made for non-conformists and dissenters: separate Anglican and dissenter chapels were included in the original plans, and separate parts of the cemetery were designated. As a result, Brompton has been recognised as a national cemetery, serving as a resting place for anyone from any creed that does not have a national burial ground within the United Kingdom. The 1848-49 cholera epidemic in London prompted the government to create a public body - The General Board of Health. The Board had responsibility for creating new cemeteries, for forbidding burials in specific places (as required), and notably for compulsory purchase of the commercial cemeteries and putting them under state control. However, subsequent political constraints imposed on the Board resulted in only one commercial cemetery being purchased. The Board bought Brompton Cemetery in 1852 from its financially stretched Cemetery Company, so making it the first (and only) London cemetery to become Crown property. That same year the Metropolitan Burial Act was passed, permitting local authorities to open cemeteries using public money, and establishing Parish Burial Boards. The first publicly owned cemetery was built in 1854. From 1854 to 1939 Brompton was popular as a military cemetery. Since its formation in 1916, The War Graves Commission has looked after those graves at Brompton that fall within its remit. As Crown property, all works relating to the buildings were the responsibility of the Office of Works, Royal Parks Division from 1852. The responsibility was passed to successor bodies: Ministry of Works and Buildings in 1940, Ministry of Works and Planning in 1942, Ministry of Works in 1943, Ministry of Public Buildings and Works in 1962. The new Department of the Environment (DoE) inherited responsibility for Brompton from the Ministry of Public Buildings and Works in 1970. The Department of National Heritage took over this responsibility from May 1992. Management of Brompton Cemetery passed to The Royal Parks Agency, established on 1st April 1993 as an Executive Agency of the Department of National Heritage (renamed in July 1997 the Department of Culture Media and Sport). In 1997 the Royal Parks and Open Spaces Regulations were amended, and for the first time were applied to Brompton Cemetery. The architecture of the memorials reflects the diversity of the cultural background of the people buried there, and includes some listed architectural treasures. In 1985 Brompton Cemetery was designated a conservation area and, reflecting its status as one of the finest Victorian Metropolitan cemeteries in the country, is grade II* listed in the national Register of Parks and Gardens of special historic interest in England, compiled and maintained by English Heritage under the National Heritage Act of 1983.
The material selected for preservation consists of records of the first Ministry of Food including some papers inherited from other Departments) and records of the Board of Trade, Food Department which succeeded it. Many pre-1936 files were registered or re-registered in 1937 by the Board of Trade, Food (Defence Plans) Department (this fact explains the existence of an FD file series consisting mainly of papers earlier than 1936. The series contains only a few papers later than 1936, but some Board of Trade material has been incorporated in the records of the second Ministry of Food, established in 1939. These records include: (1) Materials relating to the history of the Ministry of Food, 1917-1921 including a 'General Memorandum of Instruction', 14 Appendices, 2 subsidiary 'Historical Files', and a number of 'Documentary Files' containing specimens of the various forms, circulars, etc. issued by the ministry to which reference is made in the memorandum and appendices. (2) Memoranda and specimen forms used by the ministry and kept for record purposes. (3) Correspondence and papers of Mr. U.F. Wintour, C.B., C.M.G. accumulated as Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Food, June, 1917 to September, 1918. (4) Cabinet papers and memoranda which were in the custody of Lachlan MacLean, C.B., O.B.E., C.St.J., a senior officer of the first Ministry of Food, when he transferred to the Board of Trade Food Department; and remained with him until his later service with the second Ministry of Food. (5) Files registered (or re-registered) by the Board of Trade Food (Defence Plans) Department which originated as records of the first Ministry of Food and of the Board of Trade Food Departments (6) Unregistered correspondence and papers spanning the period 1916 to 1924 including the diaries of two permanent secretaries. (7) A few sets of surviving minutes of meetings of a small number of local Food Control Committees. Administrative history: The new Ministry of Food took over the control of oils and fats from the Ministry of Munitions, that of cheese and frozen fish from the Board of Trade, that of food preservation from the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, that of the food economy campaign from the War Savings Committee, and that of oats from the War Office. In 1919, the ministry's National Kitchens Division took over for a short time the responsibility for refreshment facilities in the Royal Parks. These had previously been the charge of the Office of Works. The ministry also absorbed various ad hoc bodies which had been set up to deal with difficulties over particular commodities, notably sugar and wheat. It purchased almost all imported foodstuffs as well as home-produced supplies of meat and potatoes. It organised rationing of sugar, meat, butter, margarine, lard, tea and jam, and imposed price control over a much wider range of foodstuffs. A Food Council was appointed by the food controller in September 1918 to consider general questions of food policy. After the war the ministry acquired the Road Transport Board and the Meat Supplies Department from the Board of Trade, but its activities were run down steadily as food became more plentiful, rationing being abolished in 1920. A Royal Commission on Sugar Supplies was established by Order in Council on 20 August 1914 with power to purchase, sell and regulate the supply of sugar on behalf of the government. It became a section of the Ministry of Food in 1917 but its organisation was never merged with that of the ministry and it retained considerable independence. The commission was wound up in 1921. A Royal Commission on Wheat Supplies was set up by Order in Council on 27 October 1916, with power to regulate the supply of wheat, other grains and flour. From 1 November 1917 it became administratively a division of the Ministry of Food, though it retained considerable independence. It was wound up in 1921. In 1918 a Consumer's Council was established to enlist the cooperation of the organised working classes and the Cooperative Movement. It functioned to some extent independently of the ministry.
Files of correspondence and papers of Regional Commissioners and their officers relating to the co-ordination of civil defence and related services and to preparations for dealing with civil emergencies, including invasion. Most of the files are drawn from the LR, LR/EST, O/CR and London Boroughs series of the London Regional Office, which incorporate files opened in the Air Raid Precautions Department of the Home Office. In the case of regions outside London the series contains files of the Air Raid Precautions Department and the Home Security headquarters in addition to those of individual regional offices. Administrative history: In April 1939 twelve regional commissioners were appointed to co-ordinate the civil defence work of regional officials of government departments and local authorities. In May 1940, under defence regulations, they were given additional powers to direct local authorities in civil defence matters by delegation from the Minister of Home Security and were also enabled to issue orders in or control entry to defence areas, which soon afterwards included all parts of the country. The primary purpose of the regional commissioners was the assumption of full civil powers if communication between the government and the regions broke down. This never happened, but the commissioners did perform useful functions at regional level parallel to the co-ordinating activities of the Minister at the centre. Co-ordination of civil defence services was also maintained through regional councils composed of representatives of central departments and local authorities, army commands, industry, public utilities and other interests. An inspector general toured the regions and was responsible for training standards and reporting on the conduct of operations. Under the regional commissioner and his deputy, each of the ministry's regional offices was headed by a principal officer and, in the event, the offices remained under close central control exercised by the Regional Organisation Division. Circulars on matters of administrative and operational importance were issued to them and to local authorities throughout the war by a number of headquarters divisions. Specialist regional officers were appointed for a variety of tasks, not all of them being responsible to the Minister of Home Security. Regional information officers were responsible to the Ministry of Information, regional works advisers to the Ministry of Works. General inspectors were appointed by the Ministry of Health and each region also contained a Treasury officer. Other government departments maintained liaison officers in the regions. Regional technical intelligence officers represented the Research and Experiments Department at regional level. In May 1940 regional technical advisers were appointed to give advice on engineering aspects of shelter and structural precautions programmes of local authorities under the technical direction of the Chief Engineer's Department. Regional war rooms were linked to the Home Security War Room. Arrangement: These files are grouped in sequences, arranged by subject rather than piece number, under three main headings: Region No 5 (London), pieces 1-1032; Regions Outside London (Headquarters Files), pieces 1033-1151; Regions Outside London (Regional Office Files), pieces 1152-1187. Within these headings the files are arranged alphabetically, by subject heading, place name or region.
Residue of series of files relating to School Board Offices and Pupil Teacher Centres. The Pupil Teacher Centre files that form the greater part of this series, represent those centres which were conducted independently of any particular school. The papers contained on these files include proposals to establish centres, acquisition of sites and premises, alterations and enlargements to existing Centres, requests for loans to meet the cost incurred in connection with their establishment or enlargement and the sale of their sites and premises. Some of the files also contain important policy minutes by Sir George Kekewich, first Secretary to the Board of Education, and other senior officers. The School Board Office series of files contained material of a similar character to that found on the Pupil Teacher Centre files. The series has, however, been destroyed with the exception of a few files which relate also to the establishment, on the same premises, of Pupil Teacher Centres. This latter group of combined school board office and pupil teacher centre files are included in the present series. The surviving files relate only to those centres which were conducted independently of a particular school and to school board offices which shared their premises with such a centre. The files contain papers relating to the establishment of such offices and centres, acquisition of sites and premises, alterations to premises, loans for such purposes, and the sale of sites and premises. Administrative history: The Pupil Teacher system flourished during the last two decades of the 19th century. Its main aim was to provide, in a period when there was no comprehensive system of secondary education, a continuous stream of suitably qualified public elementary school teachers. Under the code of Regulations for Day Schools, School Boards were limited to giving instruction to pupil teachers only at the public elementary schools in which they were pupils. In practice, however, it was not uncommon for Pupil Teacher Centres to be established that were completely independent of any particular school and at which the pupil teachers were frequently in full-time attendance and carried out no teaching duties whatsoever. The end of the Pupil Teacher system was foreshadowed in the Education Act of 1902 which provided, for the first time, for the establishment of a national system of secondary school education. School Board Offices were set up, with the consent of the Education Department under Section 42 of the Elementary Education Act, 1876, in areas of large population for the purpose of conducting the administrative work of the boards. When Section 42 was repealed by the Education Act of 1902, it became no longer necessary to obtain the consent of the Education Department (or the Board of Education as it had then become) for the provision of educational offices. Henceforth, the provision of such offices fell under the powers conferred upon local councils by the Local Government Acts. Arrangement: The Pupil Teacher Centre files and the combined School Board Office and Pupil Teacher Centre files are listed together alphabetically, first by counties and then by county boroughs.
Registered files of the Board of Education and successors University Branch and Pensions Branch relating to the administration of the Elementary School Teachers (Superannuation) Act 1898 and subsequent legislation relating to teachers' pensions. The subjects covered include measures taken during both World Wars to safeguard the pensions of teachers who were transferred to essential non-teaching work or served in the armed forces or ancillary services; arrangements and reciprocal arrangements for teachers serving in Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and in Commonwealth countries; and the introduction of Widows' and Family Benefit schemes. Later papers deal with the relationship of the teachers' superannuation Acts with other superannuation schemes (eg civil service, police, fire service) and with modifications made necessary following the National Insurance Act, 1948. Administrative history: Prior to 1899 the superannuation benefits of teachers depended upon minutes of the Committee of the Privy Council on Education; they were limited in number and small in amount. The Elementary School Teachers (Superannuation) Act of 1898 provided for deferred annuities, superannuation allowances and disablement allowances, the teacher being required to contribute a sum each year to the Deferred Annuity Fund. The Act was practically limited in its application to certificated teachers in public elementary schools. The School Teachers (Superannuation) Act, 1918, introduced a much more generous system of allowances, which provided for death gratuities and short service gratuities. These benefits were extended to uncertificated teachers and teachers in all schools aided by the Board of Education, including training colleges. Existing certificated teachers had the option of remaining under local pensions schemes. This system was non-contributory, but a temporary charge of 5 per cent of salary was imposed upon the teacher in 1922, and this was made permanent by the Teachers (Superannuation) Act, of 1925, an equal contribution of 5 per cent being required from the employer. The omission from the 1925 Act of a medical examination as a condition of benefit involved modifications in various Regulations of the Board. Educational organisers were afforded the option of transferring from the local pension scheme (if any) to the scheme under the Act. Under the Teachers (Superannuation) Act, 1937, teachers were able to allocate part of their pensions to dependants in accordance with the Allocation of Pensions Rules. Since this date Pensions (Increases) Acts were passed in 1944, 1947 and 1952. Arrangement: In code number order. From piece No. 105 onwards, however, the list is arranged in numerical file number order. The 'Pen. General' series of files links a subject heading to an individual number in a consecutive block commencing at Pen. 400. The files include documents registered under an earlier system which merely allotted the next available serial number to a paper on any subject, starting afresh each year.
Registered files of the Board of Education and successors' Further Education Branch and successors concerning the administration of the youth service in England, Wales and the Isle of Man. This series of files comprises Miscellaneous: A - Registration of Youth: B - Grants (Local Education Authority expenditure): D - War Service: Deferment: and P - Individual Projects. The A and D files were discontinued after the war. The records include proposals of the constitution of youth committees and administration of the youth service under Circular 1486; reports; and projects involving acquisition of land or property. Examples of papers concerning registration under the Registration of Boys and Girls Order, 1941 have been preserved from the A files of four education authorities and are shown as a single entry at the end of the series list. Examples of grant application are also shown as a single entry at the end of the series list. The series also contains papers regarding the wartime registration of youth. The post-war files continued the Miscellaneous, B and P series. The Miscellaneous series was concerned mainly with the drafting of inspectors' reports. Administrative history: In Circular 1486 the Board of Education announced a policy and procedure for placing the new service on a permanent basis as one of the normal education services administered by authorities for higher education. In pursuance of that policy county and county borough youth committees were established for the areas of the authorities concerned, in order to help with the development and expansion of the work. The most striking feature of the new service was the introduction of the principle of partnership between the board, the local education authorities and the voluntary organisations, aimed not at starting a national youth movement but at creating facilities and opportunities for young people everywhere, with no attempt to impose from above any rigid system of uniformity. In order to foster both national and local development the board offered direct grant under the Social and Physical Training Grants Regulations, 1939 to the voluntary organisations for the purpose of assisting local clubs and of maintaining headquarters administrative and organising services. At the same time local education authorities were encouraged to give aid under Section 86 of the Education Act, 1921 (re-enacted as Section 53 of the Education Act, 1944 under which education authorities have a duty to secure adequate facilities for recreation and social and physical training) their expenditure ranking for grant from the board. Two channels were thus created by which funds became available to local voluntary organisations. The 1944 Education Act gave statutory recognition to the youth service. The ministry continued the system of direct grant to national voluntary organisations to aid expenditure upon central and regional services relating to training, organisation and administration; and also to provide aid for capital expenditure for local projects. The local education authorities were left with the responsibility of aiding the maintenance of local clubs. Grant aid is intended to supplement and not take the place of voluntary effort. Arrangement: Alphabetically in county and county borough order for England and Wales.
Special cases referred to King's Bench by the judge and counsel for both parties in an inferior court, particularly assizes or quarter sessions, for a decision on a particular difficult point of law, which decided the outcome of the trial. They include appeals from general and quarter sessions under the Quarter Sessions Procedure Act 1849, and against decisions by individual justices of the peace under the Summary Jurisdiction Act 1857. Each item consists of the special case with related documents, sometimes including maps, attached. They do not carry the result of the deliberations by the court. Chronological calendars from 1869 to 1881 are in IND 1/6713. Administrative history: The superior courts of common law at Westminster had for centuries been able to refuse to enter judgment in cases determined at nisi prius if cause were shown, by means of various categories of motions in banc, why it should not do so. During the eighteenth century a procedure developed by which it was possible, when a difficult point of law arose from a case in one of the inferior courts, for that court to find a general verdict in favour of the plaintiff subject to a special case stated by counsel for both parties for the opinion of a superior court; the final result of the case depended on the decision made by the superior court. The special case was dictated by the trial judge and signed by the counsel for both parties before being filed in the superior court. It was not entered in the record of the court, so the only evidence of it is the filed case papers; the record made after the case was a normal general verdict. It was also possible for a special case to be filed, with the consent of both parties and the judge, before a suit came to trial, a process which came to be regulated by the Common Law Process Act 1852. The procedure was also developed by statute. In 1849 it was provided by section 11 of the Quarter Sessions Procedure Act that parties wishing to appeal from general or quarter sessions could, with the assent of a judge of one of the superior courts of common law, state the facts in the form of a special case for the opinion of the superior court, which when given was entered on the record of the general or quarter sessions as the judgment. In 1857, by the Summary Jurisdiction Act, parties involved in summary hearing before justices of the peace could by way of appeal state a special case to one of the superior courts; its decision would be final, and by doing so the party in question forfeited the right to appeal to quarter sessions.
Various records of naval administration, navigation and other maritime matters, including: Compilations relating to the history, administration, and rights of the Navy and the Admiralty, 1563 to 1815; memorials and reports, 1695 to 1815; law officers' opinions, 1733 to 1830; vice admiralty court regulations, 1832; legal and other case papers, 1809 to 1871. Naval instructions and standing orders, 1660 to 1909, and records of salutes, signals, and signed stations, 1603 to 1813. Admiralty and other circulars, 1819 to 1912. Incomplete collations of circular notices, 1819-1912, are in ADM 7/889-908 & 938. Establishment records: some logs and letterbooks of ships, 1648 to 1740; muster books and other returns of ships and stations (but not of crews), 1651 to 1855; salary and pension books, 1694 to 1914; registers of Coastguard reports and papers, 1828 to 1911; other establishment records, 1736 to 1932. Various registers: records relating to passes, 1683 to 1850; recruitment records, with registers of protections from being pressed, 1702 to 1840; lists and registers of convoys, 1745 to 1816; registers of letters of marque, 1777 to 1815; records of births, marriages and deaths, 1813 to 1835. Service papers of individuals, including those of Sir Jahleel Brenton at the Cape of Good Hope, 1815 to 1830, and those of Sir Edward Hughes, 1747 to 1785; letterbooks of various officers, 1796 to 1857; Matthew Flinders' narrative of his voyage and imprisonment, 1806. Estimates and other financial returns, 1673 to 1900. Board Room Journals, 1796 to 1829. Board of Revision letterbooks and minutes, 1807 to 1809. Records relating to smuggling and prizes, 1783 to 1829. A volume of charts, views, and descriptions of the west coast of Africa, 1682, and one of the coasts of Brazil and the Argentine, 17th century. Documents relating to Arctic expeditions and the search for Sir John Franklin, 1845 to 1856, with papers of the Arctic Committee, 1851. Minutes and correspondence of the Antarctic Relief Committee, 1903. Arrangement: The Admiralty had been accustomed to issue circular letters to commanders in chief and others from the seventeenth century, but these letters were treated like all others, and copied in ADM 2. In the early nineteenth century it became customary to print some of these circulars, and from 1826 a numbered series of Admiralty Circulars was issued. These Circulars or Circular Orders were Board Orders, signed by two members of the Board of Admiralty, and were supplemented by Memoranda, signed only by the Secretary of the Admiralty. This distinction corresponds to that between Lords' Letters and Secretary's Letters in ADM 2. In 1877 both series were replaced by four new series of Fleet, Dockyard, Victualling and Hospital Circulars. In the 1880's the Fleet Circulars became known as Circular Letters. All these circulars were numbered, generally in annual series, but there were also un-numbered issues of various circulars with similar, or identical titles.
These are records of the Secretary's Office of the Board of Customs. They include entry books of reports to the Treasury; entry books of letters to public offices, private individuals and collectors; a minute entry book of the Plantation Clerk; various papers relating to plantation accounts, imports, revenue and seizures; and general papers, arranged under the name of the British overseas possession concerned. The papers are mostly nineteenth century although there are some of the previous century relating to the American and other colonies. Administrative history: An act of 1672 authorised the Board of Customs to control the collection of the duty upon enumerated goods shipped in the plantations, but not brought to England. In 1686 it also became responsible for collection of the 4% duties in the West Indies, but the authority of the board to control plantation customs was never explicitly stated. When collectors of customs were first appointed in America and the West Indies, they came under the control of the board. When it first assumed responsibility for plantations, ports there were laid to the charge of the Western Department of the Secretary's Office. Later a separate Plantation Department was established within that office, responsible to the commissioners for all plantation matters. On 8 September 1767 a separate American Board of Customs was created, with its headquarters at Boston, to relieve merchants of the delay caused by sending to London their applications in revenue matters. Its powers extended over the whole of the American colonies from Davis Strait in the north to Cape Florida in the south, and also Bermuda and the Bahamas; the collections of the West Indies were left under the English board. After the War of Independence the American board was abolished on 29 September 1784. The remaining North American territories, Canada and Newfoundland, were then placed under the English board, as subsequently were all new settlements such as those in Australia, New Zealand and other colonies. The functions of the customs service there included administration of the Navigation Laws and other legislation regulating the trade of British possessions abroad, laws governing registration of British ships and those relating to the abolition of slavery. As a result of such measures as the repeal of the 4% duty in 1837 and that of the Navigation Laws in 1849 the necessity for control of plantation customs from London disappeared and gradually responsibility for plantation or colonial customs was transferred from the English board to the respective colonial administrations. By 1853 the imposition of imperial customs in territories abroad had been abolished, and no colonial records accrued thereafter to home customs; and by 1856 the board had ceased to have any responsibility for matters relating to customs in British possessions abroad, other than the provision of technical assistance.
The series consists of general policy papers, minutes of meetings and definitive maps of the Local Government Commission for England. Administrative history: The Local Government Act, 1958, provided for the setting up of two Local Government Commissions - one for England (except for the Greater London area) and the other for Wales and Monmouthshire. The Local Government Commission for England was appointed on 31st October, 1958, the chairman being Sir Henry Hancock, C.C.B., K.B.E., C.M.G. The commissions were required to carry out reviews of the counties and county boroughs and to propose any changes which, in the interests of effective and convenient local government, they found desirable in the numbers and boundaries of these authorities. In areas defined as Special Review Areas the Commission for England had the task of reviewing the county districts and the distribution of local government functions as well. Otherwise county districts were to be the subject of separate and later reviews by the county councils. The Third Schedule to the Act defined five special review areas - The Tyneside, West Yorkshire, South-East Lancashire, Merseyside and West Midlands conurbations. Other such areas could be specified by Ministerial Order but none were so specified. The Merseyside and South East Lancashire Special Review Areas were extended by Orders of the Minister in 1965,(The Merseyside Special Review Area Order 1965 - SI 905/65: the South East Lancashire Special Review Area Order 1965 - SI No. 906/65) and the Tyneside Special Review Area was extended in 1961. (The Tyneside Special Review Area Order 1961 - SI No. 1359/61). The Minister of Housing and Local Government made the Local Government Commission Regulations 1958 (S.I.1958 No. 2115) setting out a number of considerations to which the commission was to have regard when reviewing an area and some additional considerations for special review areas. The Act prescribed the procedure to be followed by the commission: Firstly, public notice was given of the intention to review, followed by consultation with all the local authorities in the area, and with other bodies concerned. The commission deliberated and produced draft proposals, either for change or preserving the status quo. These were put to the local authorities and other bodies consulted and made available for public inspection. The commission then considered representations, and conferred with interested parties before formulating final proposals and reporting to the Minister. The commission submitted final reports to the Minister on the following areas: The West Midlands Special Review Area; the West Midlands General Review Area; the East Midlands General Review Area; the South Western General Review Area; the Tyneside Special Review Area; the North Eastern General Review Area; the West Yorkshire Special Review Area; the York and North Midlands General Review Area and the Lincolnshire and East Anglia General Review Area. Draft proposals for the North Western General Review Area and the Merseyside and South East Lancashire Special Review Areas were published during 1965 and the review of the Southern General Review Area opened. The minister for his part ensured that the commission's report and final proposals for a review area were made known locally, gave an opportunity for representations to be made to him about them and held a public local inquiry where there were objections. He then made an Order to implement his decisions on those proposals which was laid before Parliament with the commission's report on which it was based. On 10th February, 1966, the Prime Minister announced that a Royal Commission would be appointed to undertake a comprehensive review of local government. It was intended that the new commission should have much broader terms of reference than the existing commission. The work of the Local Government Commission for England would therefore be discontinued.
This series contains digital records of the Central Information Technology Unit, originally held in CAB 172 , which were transferred to this series as part of the programme of migration of digital records at The National Archives in March 2008. These records were transferred to this series as part of the programme of migration of digital records at The National Archives in March 2008 and were presented via Electronic Records Online until 2014. The documents in this series consist of electronic copies of the various drafts and working papers that supported the creation of the green paper and a copy of the version published in CD ROM form. The responses to the green paper are also held in this series. Administrative history: In November 1996 the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster the Right Honourable Roger Freeman MP presented to Parliament a green paper entitled government.direct; A Prospectus for the Electronic Delivery of Government Services. The green paper was published simultaneously in both paper and electronic form. Electronic publication was made by publication on the Central Information Technology Unit web-site and also through the sale of copies on CD ROM. The green paper set out a strategy for a new way of delivering central government services across the United Kingdom. These services included providing information, collecting taxes, granting licences, administering regulations, paying grants and benefits, collecting and analysing statistics, and procuring goods and services. The strategy included new ways of working and sharing information between government departments and agencies which would improve efficiency. This would involve new forms of service delivery which would be more efficient, more accessible and more convenient. They would also appear quite different from the arrangements currently in use. However, these new forms of service delivery would only work if a substantial proportion of the public (both businesses and citizens) found them attractive. The Government wanted as far as was practicable, to tailor the new types of service to public demand. The purpose of the green paper was to seek public reaction to the service delivery arrangements it described. Throughout the paper questions are posed to indicate the issues on which the Government would particularly welcome comment. It was intended to follow publication with a series of pilot schemes, so that members of the public could try the new forms of service delivery for themselves. The reactions to these schemes would shape the arrangements which would be launched on a national scale. Arrangement: Some of the responses to the Green Paper were received in electronic form as e-mails and attachments. Others were received in paper form and were then scanned by CITU to obtain tagged image file format (TIFF) images. The documents in this series were transferred to the PRO in either PostScript or TIFF format from which a viewing copy was generated in portable document format (PDF). The documents remain unchanged but an instruction to users appears at the foot of each page together with a header and footer giving the file's series, piece and page number along with notification of copyright. For presentational purposes the final report published on CD ROM is displayed in its original software formats.
A complete set of bound and printed minutes of the Teachers' Registration Council from its inception in 1902 to its dissolution in 1949, together with copies of reports for the period 1902 to 1906. There are no minutes from the years 1907 to 1911 inclusive when no Council was in being. Administrative history: The interest of central government in teachers has largely been confined to questions of supply, although it has also necessarily been much concerned with questions of qualification, payment, pensions and conduct. The main responsibility for teachers' employment has generally been the concern of the local authority and of teachers' associations. In an attempt to strengthen the position of the profession, the Education Act 1899 made provision for the establishment of a register of teachers. In 1902, by Order in Council under Section 4(a) of the Board of Education Act, 1899, a Teachers Registration Council was established consisting of six members appointed by the board and six representing different groups of teachers. The object of the council was to establish and keep a register of teachers in accordance with regulations framed by a properly constituted consultative committee and approved by the Board of Education. It soon became apparent, however, that it was not practicable to frame and publish an alphabetical register of teachers in a form contemplated by the 1899 Act. The form in which the register was kept led to protests by the National Union of Teachers and the board's obligation to maintain such a register was accordingly removed under Section 16 of the Education (Administrative Provisions) Act, 1907. This latter Act did, however, provide that His Majesty may 'constitute a registration council representative of the teaching profession, to whom shall be assigned the duty of forming and keeping a register of such teachers as satisfy the conditions of registration established by the Council for the time being, and who apply to be registered'. Such a registration council was constituted by Order in Council in 1912. The council was independent of the Board of Education, having separate accounts. It issued lists of teachers in alphabetical order; registration was voluntary. As neither the board nor the local education authorities used the register in selecting candidates for promotion, its attraction remained limited. Owing to the granting of a charter to Reading University, thereby necessitating its representation on the council, and to the growth of new associations of teachers, the Teachers' Registration Council was given a new constitution by Order in Council in 1926. When, in 1929, the King ordered that the body of Registered Teachers should be known as the Royal Society of Teachers, the Teachers' Registration Council became the society's executive council. Registered teachers were now entitled to use the initials MRST (Member of the Royal Society of Teachers). The Ministry of Education abandoned registration in 1948 and the council was finally dissolved by Order in Council in 1949. This was on account of the changed conditions introduced by the Education Act, 1944, and by the decline in applications for membership of the Royal Society of Teachers. It was superseded by the National Advisory Council on the Training and Supply of Teachers. The rights of existing members of the Royal Society of Teachers are safeguarded under an educational trust set up for this purpose.
The records in this series relate to the maintenance of the landscape of Brompton Cemetery; to the history of its buildings, the care of its historic memorials and the variety of people who are laid to rest in this conservation area. There are also some papers relating o the administration of the cemetery. There are several sets of records: surveys: maintenance schemes, landscape restoration, condition and distribution surveys of plants and trees, buildings and monuments, feasibility studies for restoration and conservation. lists: containing information on notable people and armed forces personnel, interred in the cemetery; descriptions of listed memorials and their connections with the arts. photographs: relating to working practices, restoration projects, maintenance and images of particular memorials. Also includes a set recording the ceremony relating to the exhumation of the remains of Chief Long Wolf. Administrative history: The 1832 cholera epidemic in London, highlighted the consequences of inadequate burial ground provision for such a large population concentration. The response from parliament was to support the creation of the first commercial cemetery in 1832 at Kensal Green. Subsequent legislation authorised the establishment of a total of seven large commercial cemeteries (from 1832 to 1841) forming a ring around London. Brompton Cemetery: In 1837, The West of London and Westminster Cemetery Company bought 40 acres of land from the estate of William Edwardes, 2nd Baron Kensington (1777-1852) in West Brompton. A design competition was held for the proposed cemetery. Benjamin Baud (assistant to the architect Sir Jeffry Wyatville) submitted the best designs for the buildings and walls; Stephen Geary was appointed architect; Isaac Finnemore and John Claudius Loudon (a garden designer and eminent horticultural writer) were the landscaping consultants. Brompton Cemetery was consecrated in 1840, but not all of the original 'garden-cemetery' design was realised, as The West of London and Westminster Cemetery Company ran into financial trouble. The general Board of Health bought Brompton Cemetery in 1852 from its financially stretched Cemetery Company, so making it the first (and only) London cemetery to become Crown property. From 1854 to 1939 Brompton was popular as a military cemetery. Since its formation in 1916, The War Graves Commission has looked after those graves at Brompton that fall within its remit. As Crown property, all works relating to the buildings were the responsibility of the Office of Works, Royal Parks Division from 1852. The responsibility was passed to successor bodies, including the Department of the Environment in 1970. The Department of National Heritage took over this responsibility from May 1992. Management of Brompton Cemetery passed to The Royal Parks, an executive agency of the Department for Culture media and Sport (DCMS). The agency was established on 1 April 1993 by the Department of National Heritage, which became the DCMS in 1997. In 1997 the Royal Parks and Open Spaces Regulations were amended, and for the first time were applied to Brompton Cemetery. The architecture of the memorials reflects the diversity of the cultural background of the people buried there, and includes some listed architectural treasures. The Cemetery was designated a conservation area in 1985 and, reflecting its status as one of the finest Victorian Metropolitan cemeteries in the country, is grade II* listed in the national Register of Parks and Gardens of special historic interest in England, compiled and maintained by English Heritage under the National Heritage Act of 1983.
This series contains files relating to various aspects of the Middle East Supply Centre's work, including the Director-General's office, the Spears Mission to Syria and Lebanon (1941), agriculture, transport, industrial production, etc. Administrative history: The Middle East Supply Centre was founded in April 1941 and operated, in Cairo, until 1945, regulating the flow of civil imports, as part of the strategy of the Middle East theatre of war. Its foundation stemmed from the fact that many Middle East ports were becoming choked with supplies of both a civil and military nature, and it became necessary both to ensure the free movement of military supplies and to relieve the Army of the burden of organising and allocating civil imports. The principal functions of the Middle East Supply Centre may be described as follows: (1) To develop local production of essential food and materials in the Middle East through the co-operation of individual Middle Eastern governments and ensure that necessary imports were obtained from the nearest possible source. (2) To ensure that the demand for imports of civilian goods to the Middle Eastern countries was restricted to essentials. (3) To assist Middle Eastern governments in the control of distribution so that the imports that did arrive were used to the best purpose. (4) To provide a Centre for the exchange of information on problems of agriculture and industrial production, distribution and economics generally. These functions were carried out in Aden, British Somaliland, Cyprus, Cyrenaica, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, French Somaliland, Iraq, Lebanon, Malta, Palestine, Persia, Saudi Arabia, Sheikhdoms on the Persian Gulf, Sudan, Syria, Trans-Jordan and Tripolitania. In Cairo the general policy of the Centre was decided by a small executive council; on matters of policy which required co-ordination with other civil and military authorities in the Middle East, the Centre referred to a Sub-committee of the Middle Eastern War Council under the chairmanship of the Minister of State. Initially it reported to the Ministry of Shipping and from May 1941 to the Ministry of War Transport. At the outset local control was exercised through an intendant general of the British Army in the Middle East, but in November 1941 this responsibility passed to the Office of the Minister of State for the Middle East. Executive action was directed by the Director-General, Mr. R.G.A. Jackson, in consultation with the principal American representative in the Centre, Mr. James M. Landis (also American Director of Economic Operations in the Middle East). The Centre was originally a purely British organisation, but after America entered the war it became an Anglo-American body, a combined organisation with a joint policy and with British and American personnel serving side by side in all its divisions. Although it had been hoped that the work of the centre might be carried over into the post-war period, these plans were not successful and the centre was dissolved on 1 November 1945, certain residual functions passing to the British Middle East Office.
This series contains files of the Allied Supplies Executive Secretariat, mainly covering the organisation and procedure of the Executive, the allocation and transportation of supplies and exchange of technical information. Administrative history: Following the German invasion of Russia on 22 June 1941, the British and American governments promised to extend substantial aid to the Soviet Union. At the Moscow Conference in September 1941, the Soviet requirements were formally stated and decisions were taken by the British and US representatives for meeting the Soviet supply needs. This was later extended to Turkey and China. The Executive continued throughout the Second World War until September 1945 when much of its work was transferred to the Ministry of Production. To implement the promises made at Moscow, the Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, set-up, on 15 October 1941, a Ministerial Committee to be known as the Allied Supplies Executive. Initially this was chaired by Lord Beaverbrook (Minister of Supply), with the other members being the Secretary of State for War (Lord Margesson) and the Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Transport (Colonel Llewellin). At Lord Beaverbrook's invitation, the Foreign Secretary (Anthony Eden) and the Secretary of State for Air (Sir Archibald Sinclair) also became members. Following Lord Beaverbrook's resignation in December 1941, Eden became chairman in February 1942; he in turn was succeeded in June 1943 by Oliver Lyttelton (Minister of Production). The Allied Supplies Executive, which took over the functions of the Committee for the Co-ordination of Allied Supplies, had the following terms of reference [see WP(G)(41)111 in CAB 67/9 ]: 'To determine questions relating to military and civil supplies to Russia and the Persian Gulf area, including the improvement of communications in that area and the settlement of general priorities. The Executive will also deal with miscellaneous questions remitted to them as to military and civil supplies to other Allied or friendly countries..' Sub-committees were also set-up to deal with transportation and supplies to other countries. Supplies to the Soviet Union from October 1941 to June 1945 were regulated by four forward supply programmes: the first, second, third and fourth protocols. With the exception of the first protocol (which was concluded in October 1941 after the Moscow Conference), each protocol covered a period of twelve months from 1 July to 30 June, and set out the major commitments of military and civil supplies to be made available to the Soviet Union by Great Britain and the United States. In the third and fourth protocols, there were separate schedules for supplies on Canadian account under the provisions of the Mutual Aid Act. In addition to supplies under the protocols, requests were made for other items (both military and civil); no distinction was made between protocol and non-protocol supplies. The difference between the two categories was that protocol supplies comprised items which the Russians wished to receive in continuous monthly quotas (e.g. tanks, aircraft, machine-tools), whereas non-protocol supplies were for the most part non-recurring orders, mainly for miscellaneous manufactured items. The United Kingdom Commercial Corporation was the organisation dealing with civil supplies; military supplies were dealt with by a co-ordinating body in the War Office. Medical supplies were provided free by public subscriptions to charitable bodies, and clothing and comforts were provided from a government grant augmented by donations from charitable bodies. Arrangement: Original numerical sequence of creating body has been followed, divided into two distinct sections: CAB 111/1 -390 and CAB 111/391 -478
This series consists of proceedings of the Transport Tribunal arising from the British Transport Commission charges scheme; London fares schemes; and general proceedings Tribunal concerning applications for exceptional rates, agreed charges and classification of merchandise. There are also some applications from the British Railways Board and the London Transport Board concerning fares in the London area. Administrative history: The Railway Rates Tribunal was established by theTransport Act of 1947. This act transferred to the Tribunal the jurisdiction of the Railway and Canal Commission in respect of railways and canals. The Tribunal established Schedules of Standard Charges for the Amalgamated Railway Companies with standard terms and conditions and other matters. The fixing of standard charges involved subsidiary inquiries - standard revenue, working expenses, packing regulations, conditions of carriage, appropriation of passenger and merchandise revenue, workmens' fares etc. In addition the Tribunal had to consider many individual applications for increase, reduction and continuance of exceptional rates From 1927, standard charges and conditions had the force of Statutory Rules. The Tribunal was required to hold annual reviews of the standard charges to apply to independent railway companies the appropriate schedule of standard charges, to determine applications to add to or amend the classification, applications to amend the standard conditions in respect of owners risk and applications for consent to exceptional rates less than 5% or more than 40% below the standard. A special procedure was prescribed for the hearing of applications of exceptional rates and alteration of the classification or owners risk conditions. Exceptional rates continued to occupy the Tribunal until 1953 when the British Transport Commission Merchandise Charges Scheme was submitted for confirmation. Alterations to the classification continued to be made for two or three years longer. The Tribunal also continued to hear a diminishing number of miscellaneous applications under the Railways Act 1921. The Tribunal sat quarterly to hear alterations of the classification and owner's risk conditions and once a month to hear application for exceptional rates and agreed charges. Other powers conferred on the Transport Tribunal were: under the Local Government Act 1929 the Tribunal was required to approve a Railway Freight Rebates Scheme consequent on the derating of railway hereditaments. The operation of the scheme was reviewed annually. By the Road and Rail Traffic Act 1933 the railway companies were permitted to make, with the approval of the Tribunal, agreed charges notwithstanding consequential inequalities. Application for agreed charges were abolished by the Transport Act 1953. A special procedure was applied to agreed charges. By the London Passenger Transport Act 1933 the Tribunal inherited jurisdiction over the charges and services of the London Passenger Transport Board. The Transport Act 1962 limited the jurisdiction of the Tribunal over the London Transport and Railway Boards to fixing maximum charges for the carriage of passengers by road or rail in London.
This series contains registered files of the Planning Land Use Policy Directorate relating to planning policy issues, the administration of planning legislation, statutory regulations and rules. The files include detailed policies and procedures on planning control and restrictions, planning blight, land compensation, the compulsory purchase of land, the control of advertisements and the safeguarding of land. Some files relate to the safeguarding of specific air fields and planning control over aerodromes and areas of special interest under Control Order 1966. The series includes files re-registered from earlier Ministry of Housing and Local Government (MHLG) file series. The earliest papers on the files date from 1947 and have been re-registered from the MHLG Planning Numbers (P9) series ( HLG 131 ) or Planning Letters (PB) series ( HLG 141 ). After the directorate was re-named, PLUP series files were re-registered into the PDC (Planning Development Control) series in 1989 except for the PLUP 2 series which continued to be used. Administrative history: The Planning and Land Use Policy (PLUP) Directorate was created in 1972. It primarily inherited its responsibilities from sections of the 1971 Planning Directorate B, but also drew expertise from Planning Directorate E. The pre-1972 Planning Directorates of the Department of the Environment had inherited some of the functions of the Planning Divisions 'A', 'B' and 'C' of the Ministry of Housing and Local Government. In the first instance the directorate was mainly responsible for development control policy and procedures on matters concerning land availability, land transactions (including compulsory purchase orders) and compensation, and the disposal of surplus government land under Circular 49/63. The PLUP also dealt with general policy issues on slum clearance, the rehabilitation of derelict land, planning re-development grants, public inquiry procedures and specialist planning appeals (including enforcement and advertisement appeals). To meet these needs the directorate was organised on the basis of four divisions: i) Land Transactions and Compensation Division; ii) Land Commission Division (which dealt with the residual functions of the Land Commission); iii) Development Control Division; and iv) Specialist Appeals. However, the responsibilities of the directorate were by no means static and thus the directorate was often restructured to enable it to meet changing demands. In 1974 the directorate also took on responsibility for the policy and legislation regarding the community ownership of development land, including monitoring the community ownership of land development and the implementation of the community land scheme. It retained this responsibility until 1980. To accommodate this addition the directorate was reorganised into seven divisions (PLUP 1 to PLUP 7), three of which dealt with issues concerning community land, although this number was later reduced. In 1981 the directorate was again restructured, this time to absorb the duties transferred from the Land Economy Directorate. In 1986 PLUP 5 became known as Lands and Property Division (LPD). This structure was essentially retained until 1987 when these land economy duties were once again separated from the functions of the directorate, and transferred to a separate Land and Property Directorate. The Planning Land Use Policy Directorate was itself then dissolved and re-named Planning and Development Control.
Records created by the Welsh Office component of the Ministry for Housing and Local Government cover the following areas. Records relating to public health were created covering the control of the spread of diseases from environmental sources: e.g. ensuring clean air and clean water supplies. Records relating to the housing function include slum clearance, the provision of adequate new housing, council housing, rents, security of tenure for tennants, maintenance of government housing estates. Records relating to the planning functions include comprehensive redevelopment of areas - especially in war damaged areas - the control of development, imposition of fines for breach of planning regulations, implementation of the Town and Country Planning Acts, compulsory purchase and compensation, land use, appeals on Ministry planning decisions and regional economic planning. Records relating to the management of local government and finance of metropolitan boroughs and urban and rural district councils and later county councils and boroughs were created. So too were records concerning local government reorganisation and controlling the expenditure of local governments in Wales and the imposition of rates and taxes. The vetting and presentation of grants to Welsh local authorities are also included. The records also include the transfer of functions from Westminster based government departments to the Secretary of State for Welsh Affairs and communication issues with government at Westminster. Administrative history: The Welsh Office component of the Ministry for Housing and Local Government was created in 1951 along with its parent department. On this date, the Ministry for Housing and Local Government had taken over the public health and environmental functions of the Ministry of Health: the latter retaining responsibilities for the personal health of British citizens - National Health Service, local health services and social security. The Ministry for Housing and Local Government took over responsibilties for public health, housing, town and country planning and the system, powers and finance of local government. Like its parent department, the Welsh Office had received similar functions from the Welsh Board of Health. From April 1965, a Secretary of State for Wales exercised functions parallel to those of the Minister of Housing and Local Government in England (along with some other government functions such as transport), and therefore gained some level of autonomy in these matters although the Secretary of State for Wales (and the Secretary of State for Scotland) kept in very close touch with the English Minister for Housing and Local Government. Both Secretaries of State kept liaison officers in London: the Welsh had the Wales Office in Gwydyr House, Whitehall, to ensure the closest links and coordinated policy between the Welsh, Scottish and English arms of the Ministry. From 1965, the Welsh Office was formally recognised as a department in its own right, based in Cardiff and with its own Minister:. This replaced the collection of Welsh sections of various Westminster based government departments that had existed previously. Confusingly, the Civil Service Year Book only recognises the separate organisation of the Welsh Office as a government department in its own right from 1975.
Decrees, laws and ordinances issued by commissioners with responsibility for drainage. Most of the documents in this series are from the period 1600-1650, when the Fens of eastern England were being drained. Accordingly the counties appearing most often are Lincolnshire, Cambridgeshire and the Isle of Ely, and Norfolk, with Yorkshire, Huntingdonshire, Nottinghamshire and Suffolk; Essex, Middlesex, Kent and Hertford also occur, but in the west only Cumberland and Gloucester appear. While many of the laws detail drainage, banking or walling regulations, they are also partly, or even mainly, concerned with land awards to investors in reclamation, assessments of landholders to meet the cost of drainage, and the pursuit of defaulters on payment. The series also contains a declaration of proceedings upon the execution of a commission fining the polluter of a river, articles and instructions relating to a commission of sewers, and the order on a petition made against a decree of the commissioners. Although there was no requirement to enrol these documents in Chancery, some of them appear among such enrolments from 1633 to 1714 in C 226 , and are in far better condition than the originals. Administrative history: From time immemorial it has been recognised that the danger of flood, and the threat of inroads from the sea, could best be combatted by effective land drainage and the building of embankments and sea walls. The communal responsibilities that the maintenance of these works imposed were, during the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, enforced in different localities by either customary authorities or specially appointed justices under royal commissions of sewers. The first such commission recorded on the patent rolls dates from 1258, and relates to the parts of Holland in Linolnshire. During the fifteenth century successive parliamentary statutes began to impose a greater regularity in these proceedings, culminating in the Statute of Sewers of 1531. The statute empowered the lord chancellor, lord treasurer and chief justice to issue, when they judged it necessary, a commission to a body of men to govern the sewers of a particular district. Under this act a commission of sewers lasted only three years, although in 1571 the term was extended to ten. To ensure that the more important laws passed by the commissioners might survive the termination of their authority, the 1531 statute provided scope for certain laws to be engrossed on parchment and certified under the seals of the commissioners into the Court of Chancery. Once the Commission of Sewers Act of 1571 dispensed with the need for the royal assent to be given to the commissioners' decrees, the mere authority of the seals of any six commissioners became sufficient to make permanently binding laws; laws which held good (until expressly abrogated by successor commissioners) even after the term of a commission had expired, or had been summarily brought to an end by a writ of supersedeas.
This series contains the Bye Laws of 138 boroughs in England and Wales, submitted to the Home Office for approval. In addition to the Bye Laws themselves, there are draft Bye Laws, Bye Laws submitted in booklet form, and posters advertising public meetings to draw attention to the newly promulgated Bye Laws. The records also contain letters forwarded from the Boroughs to the Home Office in London to accompany proposed Bye Laws. The Bye Laws cover the period 1836 to 1840, other than one set of Bye Laws proposed by the Borough Council of Durham in 1845 (in HO 70/2 ). Also included in the series are petitions from the Borough of Birmingham for and against a charter of incorporation (in HO 70/1 ) and a Report of the Tithe Commutation Returns (in HO 70/6 ). Administrative history: The Municipal Bye Laws which are to be found in this series were prepared as a consequence of an Act which became law on 9 September 1835: 'An Act to Provide for the Regulation of Municipal Corporations in England and Wales' (5 & 6 Wm IV, c 76). Drafts of proposed Bye Laws, the Bye Laws themselves, and accompanying letters, were forwarded to the Home Office in London and often marked for the attention of Lord John Russell, Home Secretary from April 1835 to August 1839. The Bye Laws as proposed and then finalised were forwarded to the Home Office once meetings of the relevant Borough Councils, with a sufficient number of councillors present, had agreed upon the wording and content. As a consequence of this correspondence, a number of the Bye Laws across England and Wales were amended or altered to take into account dissatisfaction expressed by the Home Office. The proposed Bye Laws were regularly rejected in part and returned to the Borough Councils with suggested amendments and 'improvements'. A final version, agreed upon by the Council of the Borough or Town or City in question, and with such changes as were deemed necessary, would then become the legally binding local Bye Laws. The convention was to wait for forty days (during which time copies of the Bye Laws or Laws would be attached to the front of town halls or left displayed in other prominent places) and for the Bye Laws to become law once the forty days were expired if no instructions to the contrary were received. Correspondence between local and central government, after the passage of the Act in 1835, on occasion reflects disputes between the municipal authorities and the Home Office over the wording of the Bye Laws. Some Boroughs printed their Bye Laws and their printed Laws were submitted to the Home Office as published booklets. Arrangement: Alphabetical by borough name Physical condition: Most of the Bye Laws in this series are in paper form. However, a number of them are made of parchment and nearly all of the Bye Laws, whether paper or parchment, have seals attached to them. A number of the seals have been damaged.
These are entry books of the monthly bills of all creditors not paid by salary and contain the Extraordinary expenses which required special warrants. Up to 1761 ( LS 8/1 -99) the creditors are arranged by office of the Lord Steward's Department, ie kitchen, bakery, scullery, poultry, pantry, woodyard etc. The only exception to this is the stables which are not included. It should be noted that the wardrobe, however, is included, although this came under the control of the Lord chamberlain's Department. The person craving payment is noted; for what product or service; and the amount requested. Totals per office, per month are given, and also totals by quarter. In 1761, as part of the general reforms, the creditors' account was divided into three sections - household, kitchen and incidental, with one piece per section, per year. As before, the person seeking payment; for what; and amount are given, but no longer the office. The entries are given in a good deal of detail as to precisely what commodity or service has been provided. Totals are given by month and type of provision. Examples under the household heading are bread, beer, salt, wax lights, washing, dairy produce, coals, wood. Under the kitchen heading appear bread, wines, fish, meat, pastry, butter, vinegar, herbs etc. The incidentals cover services, such as those of the brazier, pewterer, turner, linen-draper, caretaker and stationer. The incidentals include extraordinary expeditions and visits, such as those of the Prince and Princess of Brunswick in 1764 ( LS 8/111 ). These will also include items more usually found in a household or kitchen creditor. In the later creditors the accounts are divided by palace or residence. Kitchen creditors were made up from monthly mensils. There are separate creditors for Hampton Court, for 1795 to 1799. In 1816 the system changed again and the creditors were no longer divided into sections. After a period of variation as to both period covered and monthly or quarterly accounting, between 1816 and 1820, the system is again established of a volume per year, arranged by quarters. The bills were tendered usually for the quarter or a specific month, presumably as suited the tradesman. From 1816 the items entered are numbered. The date is then given, followed by the name of the creditor; the amount; and the provision or service, much the same as in earlier pieces. These are, in appearance, more like invoice books, with a full copy of each tradesman's bill or creditor. They are organised according to palace or residence. At the end there is a section of sundries and disbursements, which were paid in cash by the treasurer of the Board of Green Cloth. These include various allowances, and salaries to extra servants. Creditors for special occasions, royal visits and visitors, and some minor royal households can be found in LS 8/315 -321 (1814-1828). Administrative history: From 1662 predictable outgoings were regulated by establishments, which were lists of fixed charges and allowances covering provisions and ingredients, and all salaries and boardwages (payments in lieu of food and drink allowances, while in attendance on household duties). These establishments based payments were also known as ordinary charges. Thus, records in this series are the account of extraordinary charges.
Secretary of State's entry books of royal warrants, docquets and occasionally of royal letters relating to Scotland, and some orders in Council and commissions to inquire into such problems as the disorders in the university of Glasgow in 1718, and the regulation of legal fees. There is a chronological gap from February 1709 to 1711, and again from 1711 to 1713. Every kind of royal appointment is catered for: legal officers from Lord President of the Court of Session to writers to the signet and clerks to the justices; local ones, such as sheriffs depute, registrars of sasines and commissary clerks; and places in the royal service in Scotland such as almoner, apothecary, armourer, falconer, printer, tailor, master of the works, master mason, wright and 'plaisterer', glazier, master of the wardrobe and so on. There are also military commissions and appointments of governors of forts and conservators of the Scots privileges in Holland; presentations to kirks, chaplaincies and keeperships of holy places and professorships at Scots universities; and charters granting lands and rents and gifts of escheat bestowing forfeited Jacobite estates on deserving loyalists, with a few gifts of bastardy. Warrants for payment and reward, for the arrest of suspects (for treason in the case of Jacobites) and for the reprieve and pardon of others, including remissions of capital punishment of common criminals upon condition of transportation, if civilian, or enlistment, if military, are present. There are also licences to apply inventions patented, especially after 1750, whether they were first contrived in Scotland or were to be marketed in Scotland as well as England (as in the case of Richard Arkwright's textile machinery). The inventions are mainly agricultural and industrial. Many of the warrants appear in full in these entry books: others take the curtailed form of docquets. The longest documents are charters of incorporation. In several cases it is noted, marginally, that warrants were 'not used' or 'cancelled' - some are crossed out or are incomplete. The royal letters diminish in number chronologically after the Union, though there was a flurry of them then and during the rebellions of 1715 and 1745. There are letters to the General Assembly of the Kirk, together with instructions to the High Commissioners appointed annually to represent the crown at its meetings. There are letters to the Scottish burghs; defence precautions and instructions to military commanders, especially in 1715. Administrative history: The various royal appointments and orders were countersigned before the Union by the two Scottish Secretaries of State, and soon after the Union either by the Secretaries of State for the Northern and Southern Departments or by the 'third' Secretary appointed at various times between 1709 and 1746 to deal specifically (from 1713 exclusively) with Scottish affairs. The warrants were patented to be passed under the Great Seal of Scotland (and its substitute after the Union) or the Privy Seal of Scotland. Arrangement: The arrangement is purely chronological.
This single register covers baptisms from 1755 to 1875; and marriages from 1761 to 1880, as well as various other related entries, such as marriage licences. An inscription at the front of the register reads, 'This Register is kept by the dean of the chapels royal according to the direction given by HM to Bishop Porteus [Bishop of London, 1787-1809].'. Administrative history: The Chapel Royal at Whitehall was destroyed by fire in 1698, after which the Banqueting Hall at Whitehall served as the chapel, until 1702, when Queen Anne decided to restore the Banqueting Hall to its secular purpose, repair and enlarge the chapel at St James, and create this latter the Chapel Royal, removing all the singing men and boys thence in 1703. The Banqueting Hall still remained as a chapel, and became a military chapel in 1808. From time to time extra chapels were created to serve particular sects and nationalities, reflecting the beliefs and nationalities of members of the royal family. Thus, a catholic chapel was established at St James for Henrietta Maria, Charles I's queen (known as the Queen's Chapel), and this was restored by Charles II for his queen, Catherine of Braganza. In 1689 it ceased to be used as a catholic chapel, and was in use by French and Dutch protestants in 1700. The French used it until 1781, when they exchanged with the German Lutheran congregation, who were using a room in the Great Court as a chapel. It was known as the German Chapel for the remainder of George III's reign. During this latter reign there was also a Dutch Chapel in existence. The French and Dutch Chapels were destroyed in the fire of 1809, which consumed much of St James' Palace. At Whitehall a catholic chapel was established during James II's reign. It should be noted that the entries in the register in this series generally refer only to the 'Chapel Royal', and therefore, presumably, imply the main chapel. The baptisms include not only those of the royal family, but also servants of the household, such as the child of a housemaid, groom, laundress or table decker. Some entries give neither the title nor position of the parent. Not all the royal baptisms took place at St James, some were in palace rooms, often in Buckingham Palace, but sometimes Windsor Castle or Marlborough House. The date of birth as well as of baptism is given. In the earlier baptisms the confessor to the Household signs at the bottom of the page. With the baptisms are notes of the royal family's attendance at divine service, their confirmations and their churching of women. The marriages appear at the other end of the same volume, and are generally those performed at St James, but include marriages at Windsor, in several German states, and elsewhere. They include the monarch's consent to the marriage, under the Act designed to ensure better regulation of royal marriages (12 Geo III, c 11), after which the monarch's consent was needed for a royal wedding to take place. The entries contain the signatures of the witnesses, as well as of the persons married. Unlike the baptisms, the marriages do not include household servants, but do include some commoners of high rank. The licences to marry which are to be found here are usually for marriages other than at St James, and are often to take place at Windsor. Physical condition: This calf bound volume is wrapped in velvet and is stamped with royal arms
Papers of the Board of Education and predecessors recording the procedure of inspection, recognition and approval of all schools and institutions (including some not subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Education) providing secondary education. The series contains papers concerning the administration of endowments attached to such institutions (from 1903 to 1921); the drafting of schemes regulating endowments attached to endowed schools; the administration of both these endowments and those not confined to particular institutions; and endowments providing exhibitions at universities. The papers also portray the affects of the economic and political climate outlined above. The first part of the series (piece numbers 1-3455) consists mainly of files, created in 1902, containing proposals by authorities to provide municipal secondary schools or to assume responsibility, with the agreement of the trustees, for certain endowed schools. Early files also contain Science and Art Department papers concerning the establishment of Science Schools (and science or art classes within schools); and records relating to Pupil Teacher Centres including teacher training provision in departments of existing schools. Schools previously administered by the Charity Commissioners are also found in this series. The second part of this series (piece numbers 3456-7149) consists of a series of subject files created in 1922 for each school (Welsh files in 1924) necessitated by the growth of secondary school provision after the halt imposed by the First World War. The same official school number was continued and some overlap of dates occurs in respect of material filed with the pre-1922 papers and the post-1921 subheads. Similarly where, for example, an institution closed shortly after 1944, the post-1944 papers have nevertheless been retained in the second part of this series. The series includes files for schools in the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, individual institutions such as the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, public schools, orphanages and cathedral choir schools. There are also papers relating to free places, length of school life, the inclusion of more playing fields and gymnasia in many new schools and of school swimming baths in schedules of accommodation and finance. In a few cases there are statistics of the social classes from which pupils were drawn. There is much less material on the Welsh files relating to property and domestic matters than on the English files, whilst the fact that both the Board of Education and the Central Welsh Board reported on Welsh schools greatly increased the number of inspection reports. Papers peculiar to Welsh files are those dealing with the private lodgings of children during term time because of difficulty of travel, and with the teaching of the Welsh language. The school files are inter-related with the County Intermediate and Technical Education Fund files, which contain endowment papers of schools previously administered under the Endowed Schools Acts, 1869-1894. This part also includes the two general Central Welsh Board and Intermediate and Technical Education Treasury Grant files, containing, among other matters, the annual reports submitted to the Charity Commission (and later to the Board of Education) for transmission to the Treasury; domestic matters concerning the Central Welsh Board; and discussions on Welsh educational policy. Individual school files for Wales reflect the paucity of new school building during this period owing to the tremendous drop in the school population as a result of the migration from the Principality in search of work during the years of the depression. is seen against a background of difficulties and misunderstandings between the Board of Education and the Central Welsh Board regarding the latter's administration. The few Central Welsh Intermediate Education Fund general files which remain contain various proposals for a solution to these problems, such as a unified Inspectorate, changes in the financial structure of the Central Welsh Board, the establishment of a National Council of Education for Wales, and the transfer of the functions of the Central Welsh Board to the University Court of Wales. New material appeared on the files during the war, including applications from secondary institutions for approval, by the General Nursing Council, of pre-nursing courses organised for the schools' senior girls; the building of new or extended school canteens to meet wartime emergency feeding demands; and in records relating to special problems arising from evacuation. The impact of the Second World War upon the progress of secondary education in both England and Wales is reflected in the diminution of material during the period 1939-1944. Administrative history: Under the Regulations for Secondary Schools (introduced under the 1902 Act and revised periodically in subsequent years) any institution providing secondary education could apply for recognition. Endowed and voluntary schools sought approval for the purpose of parliamentary grant; schools ineligible for, or not desiring, grant applied to be recognised as efficient by the Board of Education. Some orphanages providing secondary education, and certain cathedral choir schools, applied for recognition. Schools in the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, public schools, and other institutions such as the Royal Military College sought inspection or advice (although not subject to the jurisdiction of the board). In 1909 the board published in List 60 all secondary schools in receipt of grant and/or recognised as efficient. The publicity acquired by inclusion in this list stimulated applications and it was later extended to include preparatory schools. Schools also sought recognition by the board to meet the requirements demanded of teachers who wished to be registered on the Register of Teachers maintained by the Teachers' Registration Council, established in 1902. In the sphere of physical education in secondary schools there was a marked development during the period 1922-1939, although the economic vicissitudes curbed the fulfilment of the real need. Secondary education in Wales stemmed largely from the Welsh Intermediate Education Act, 1889. An increasing number of intermediate schools which had been provided under this Act, were municipalised and placed under Local Education Authorities as secondary schools. The post-1921 development of secondary education in Wales (following the recommendations of a Departmental Committee in 1920 on the future of secondary education in the Principality) is seen against a background of difficulties and misunderstandings between the Board of Education and the Central Welsh Board regarding the latter's administration. Arrangement: The files in both the first and second parts of this series are arranged in county order for England and Wales, followed by the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
The records in this series mostly relate to works constructed in tidal waters and to the ownership of foreshore land but the collection also included a small number of plans relating to railways. It is possible that what is now one collection of maps may originally have been three - one collection relating to Crown foreshore, one collection relating to potential obstructions to navigation and harbour limits, and a third, much smaller, collection relating to railways. Many pieces consist of a bundle of maps or plans rolled together, and sometimes accompanied by associated correspondence. Where a specific date is given for a particular piece, this is the year in which the Board of Trade received it; where this date is not known, an estimated date range has been supplied in square brackets. Administrative history: In about 1840 the General Department of the Board of Trade was created and its responsibilities included coast protection works. In 1842 the Harbour Department of the Admiralty was created and its responsibilities included the regulation of foreshore development. Under the Railways Consolidation Act 1845 the Admiralty was given powers to approve railway construction affecting tidal lands. The Harbour, Docks and Pier Clauses Act gave the Admiralty and the Commissioners of Woods powers to authorise works if they affected, 'any part of the shore of the sea, or of any creek, bay, arm of the sea or navigable river where and so far up as the same of the tide flows or reflows'. The Preliminary Inquiries Act 1851 extended the Admiralty's authority to include bridges, viaducts and 'any work affecting the navigation of any harbour, port or navigable river'. The General Pier and Harbour Act 1861 required that all proposed bills relating to such works were to be deposited with the Board of Trade, although their approval remained with the Admiralty until 1862 when the Harbour Transfer Act transferred the functions previously performed by the Admiralty to the Board of Trade. The Crown Lands Act 1866 transferred responsibility for the management of the Crown foreshore from the Commissioners of Woods to the Board of Trade. The Harbour Department of the Board of Trade discharged these responsibilities until 1919 when they passed to the Ports Division of the Ministry of Transport. In 1939 the navigational functions were transferred to the Ministry of Shipping, which was amalgamated with the Ministry of Transport in 1941 to form the Ministry of War Transport. When the latter was dissolved in 1946 the responsibilities returned to the Ministry of Transport. The Coast Protection Act 1949 passed the management of the Crown foreshore to the successors of the Commissioners of Woods, the Commissioners of Crown Lands. It seems likely that at some date following this transfer of responsibility further accruals to the collection related solely to the approval of works in navigable waters and not to the management of the foreshore but there is no evidence as to when this occurred. Responsibility for the approval of structures in navigable waters remained with the Ministry of Transport until 1965, when the functions passed to the Board of Trade. They remained with the Board of Trade and its successors until 1983 when the responsibility passed to the Ports Division of the Department of Transport. Arrangement: When discovered, these maps and plans had no discernible original order. The order of the reference numbers assigned to them by the National Archives has no particular significance. Originally all the maps were numbered using a tag which protruded from the map roll. In some cases this tag has now fallen off and cannot be found (these are the maps listed as having no original reference or which have been given the reference number 0). It is not unusual for a number of maps to have been allocated the same reference number. Other numbering systems can also be seen on the maps, including: 'black' maps where a number is written in black. These appear to be works for which permission was granted by the Board of Trade, the authorisation being recorded on the maps and plans plans with red numbers or red bindings relate to schemes for which consent was given a green series, representing applications for which consent was not given or was not required Physical condition: All the maps and plans in this series are very dirty.
King's Bench indictment files covering the whole of England except London and Middlesex. After some early gaps, the series is almost complete from 1693. Besides indictments and their associated process, removed from inferior courts, mainly assizes and quarter sessions, under writs of certiorari, the files also contain informations quo warranto, mainly used to regulate the tenure of local officers, and qui tam, used by informers to initiate prosecutions under penal statutes on behalf of the crown, as well as informations by the master and ex officio. Until about 1750 they also contain coroners' inquisitions, which had been handed in to the assize justices and were forwarded by them to the court, but after that date the practice ceased. The files normally bear the name of the king's coroner and attorney, who came more commonly to be called the master of the Crown Office, in addition to the description and date. The series includes a stray recorda file for 1689, which bridges the gap between the two parts of that series in KB 145 and KB 16 , as well as some stray items from other recorda files. Administrative history: Criminal informations are common on files of the seventeenth century but thereafter become less numerous than indictments until the early nineteenth century. The main two categories, informations ex officio, which were exhibited by the attorney general, and informations exhibited by the king's coroner and attorney, or master, are mentioned under KB 10. The two lesser kinds, informations quo warranto and informations qui tam, are more numerous in the files in this series than in the London and Middlesex files. Informations quo warranto filed by the attorney general were most common in the reign of Charles II, when they were filed against a number of corporations as part of a campaign to encourage them to apply for new charters. Thereafter they are less frequent except at election times, because of the power of the local dignitaries to influence the outcome of elections, but informations in the nature of a quo warranto came to be used as a means of trying the right of a particular individual to a corporate office under an act of 1710 (9 Anne c 25). If it was successful, the usurping office-holder would be removed from office, fined and made to pay the costs of his prosecution. Such informations were exhibited in the name of the king's coroner and attorney, following application to the courtmembers of the corporation and interested parties by affidavit. Informations qui tam could be filed for any penalty due to the crown or an informer, or an informer alone, under a penal statute specifying that it could be recovered by information in any of the king's courts at Westminster. It was in effect a private prosecution in the form of acting in the king's interest, the name of the procedure deriving from the Latin form of the formula that the informer was proceeding 'as well for the lord king as for himself' (tam pro domino rege quam pro se ipso). Informations qui tam were most usually exhibited for offences committed against the game laws; the statutes of 1721 (8 George I c 19) and 1762 (2 George III c 19) explicitly provided for action by information in the courts at Westminster as well as by information before a local magistrate. In order to proceed an affidavit as to the facts had to be made by a person who saw the offence committed, sworn before a King's Bench justice or commissioner, from which the information was drawn by a clerk in court in the name of an informer, signed by the latter and handed to the king's coroner and attorney in term time, who made a note of the date on the dorse, as he was required to do under a statute of 1588 (31 Elizabeth I c 5). Proceeding by information in King's Bench was popular because it was less expensive to the plaintiff (if successful), speedier and brought a greater punishment on the defendant. Other offences for which this kind of information was occasionally used include those against statutes prohibiting the export of wool.
The Housing Data, Renovation Grants and Group Repair Schemes Activity dataset was collected by various housing statistics sections of the Departments of the Environment and Transport (DETR). The data was collected using the quarterly 'P1D Form'. There is currently one dataset in the series, covering the period December 1980 to March 2001, when the P1D form was discontinued. The data collected is used for the monitoring of subsidy grants to local authorities contributing to expenditure for a variety of group repair and renovation schemes under various Acts of Parliament including: the Housing Act 1969; the Housing Act 1974; the Housing Act 1980; the Local Government and Housing Act 1989; and the Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996. The schemes cover house renovation, disabled facilities, houses in multiple occupation (HMO), common parts grants, group repairs and home repairs assistance. Some schemes under earlier legislation have been subsumed under later schemes. The data provides information on the numbers and values of grants, for each local authority in England, covering each type of grant separately and also numbers of dwellings and numbers of group repair schemes started, completed and in progress. The total level of expenditure involved is in excess of £350 million per annum. The information is used to brief ministers and other people on the level of local authority private sector renewal activity, to help estimate future levels of demand for grants and to identify trends in local authority activity in order to set future regeneration policy. The datasets in this series are available to download. Links to individual datasets can be found at piece level. Administrative history: The information contained in the Housing Data, Renovation Grants and Group Repair Schemes Activity dataset was owned and created by various Housing Data and Statistics sections of the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions (DETR) and its predecessor bodies. The Housing Data and Statistics section was part of the Housing Monitoring and Statistics Division until 1993 and of the Housing and Urban Monitoring and Analysis Division until 1998 and is now part of the Housing, Private Policy and Analysis Division. Quarterly data on housing capital expenditure and receipts is now collected by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, using a revised form numbered P1A. Some information previously gathered on the discontinued P1D form is now also included on the P1A. The basic scheme for giving out grants was introduced in 1949, but has been amended through the years. In 1980, grants were introduced for secure tenants in the public sector and regulated tenants in the private sector. Later the scheme was affected by the Housing Act 1985, and further amended by the Housing and Planning Act 1986. The most recent piece of legislation to affect this series was the Local Government and Housing Act 1989. Under this Act, a system for house renovation grants, which made provision for payments to private owners and tenants, came into operation in 1990. Arrangement: Details of the original hardware and Operating System are not known. Application Software: The P1D data for 12/1980 - 08/1999 was held on Comshare C77 databases, at the department's processing unit in Bristol. Later this data was moved to Comshare Commander ADL databases, to match the more recent records. The P1D data for 09/1999 - 03/2001 was stored on an SQL database. User Interface: No information available prior to 1999. For the data entry during 09/1999 - 03/2001, local authorities were able to submit data to the department using the InterForm Gateway system. Logical structure and schema: The series contains a single dataset comprising 38 tables. These tables represent conversions of the original data from the databases into Excel format, performed by the Department. The original arrangement as presented in these conversions by the Department was preserved by NDAD, although the name components RETURNS and RESPONSES were added by NDAD to differentiate the two main categories of data. How data was originally captured and validated: For the early period (i.e. 12/1980 - 08/1999), the data in the series was compiled from completed P1D forms. The forms were completed by local authorities, and the data subsequently keyed into the database by Department staff. Data was collected on a local authority basis. Each local authority is identified by a code in the Lacode field. For the period 09/1999-03/2001, the data was collected using the web interface system InterForm Gateway. Using this online form, local authorities were able to submit data directly to the department. Constraints on the reliability of the data: The data may not be completely reliable as statistical data, because the forms are a 'voluntary' return by local authorities, so the data collection may not be comprehensive.
The Case Index datasets are all derived from a Dataease database used in the Office of the Judge Advocate General of the Forces (JAG). The JAG case index system contains details of courts martial involving Army, Royal Marines and RAF personnel and Standing Civilian Courts; it contains details of the offender, the charge, the Judge Advocate presiding at the hearing and the result of the hearing. The data contains index details of courts martial and standing civilian court cases heard in the UK and abroad 1991-2004. The system was established in 1992 but contains data from 1991 onwards, it was substantially redeveloped and expanded in 1995 and this is reflected in the arrangement of the datasets. The first dataset covering 1991-1995 reflects the Dataease database as originally designed in 1992, the subsequent two datasets reflect the reworked and expanded system developed in 1995. At the time the third dataset was originally transferred to the United Kingdom National Digital Archive of Datasets (NDAD) in March 2004 the Dataease system had been superseded by a simplified case index system developed using Microsoft Access. The third dataset in the series was therefore transferred as a final state snapshot of the JAG Dataease database. The datasets in this series are available to download. Links to individual datasets can be found at piece level. Administrative history: These datasets are derived from a database containing information on the courts martial of armed forces personnel, maintained by the Office of the Judge Advocate General (JAG) of the Forces. A court martial is a court convened to try armed forces personnel who have committed military or criminal offences. In the UK criminal offences committed by soldiers or airmen will normally be tried by local civilian courts, although the Army or RAF may be granted jurisdiction in which case they will be tried by court martial. Service personnel who have committed offences under military law will always be tried by court martial. Outside the UK the jurisdiction of courts martial is based on agreements such as NATO's Status of Forces Agreement which gives rights to countries sending forces to serve in other countries to exercise jurisdiction over its soldiers who commit offences. There are two major types of court martial dealt with by the JAG case index system: General Court Martial (GCM) - deals with commissioned officers, warrant officers and the most serious cases involving other ranks. A GCM is heard by a court martial comprising at least five officers, one of whom is nominated as the president of the court and a judge advocate. The president of the court will normally hold field officer rank and at least four members of the court will be of a rank not below that of captain (or flight lieutenant in the case of the RAF). Its maximum powers of punishment are whatever is prescribed by law for the offence(s) of which the accused is convicted. District Court Martial (DCM) - A DCM is more limited in its jurisdiction, a maximum sentence of 2 years imprisonment can be imposed by the court. Officers cannot be tried by a DCM. The membership of a DCM comprises at least three officers, one of whom is nominated as the president of the court and a judge advocate. In addition the Judge Advocate General's office deals with cases heard by the Standing Civilian Court. This court was created by the Armed Forces Act 1976 and has a jurisdiction over service dependants and UK based civilians working for the Ministry of Defence who are within the limits of the command of an officer commanding a body of the regular forces outside the United Kingdom. The court is presided over by a magistrate who is a senior judge-advocate. He usually sits alone although, when hearing cases involving juveniles, he will sit with assessors, who are usually Crown Servants. The proceedings are less formal than those of a court-martial, although the powers of sentencing are wider (albeit limited to a maximum of 12 months imprisonment). Cases which involve serious allegations will not normally be tried by the SCC. They will go to court-martial, where the range of sentencing options is extended, in the case of civilians, by the APOTOC Regulations (Additional Powers on Trial of Civilians by SCC and Court-Martial). Arrangement: Hardware: Networked PCs in the JAG's office. Operating System: Microsoft DOS version 6.22, Microsoft Windows for Workgroups version 3.11 and Microsoft Windows 98. Application Software: Dataease version 4.53 for DOS. User Interface: The system can be used to generate a variety of statistical reports sorting on the basis of the service, rank and sex of offenders, the location of the hearing (UK or overseas) and the court martial type (GCM, DCM or SCC). A summary of the type of statistical reports generated in the post 1995 system can be found in the user manual, a copy of which can be found attached to the dataset catalogue. Logical structure and schema: The JAG case index system consists of 3 datasets covering 1991-1995, 1995-1999 and 2000-2004. The first dataset differs in some ways from the second and third as the system was modified and expanded during 1995. Both versions of the database, however, contain several tables linked by fields containing a unique case number which hold the data plus various lookup tables. The main tables contain information about defendants, a record of the charges brought against defendants and general information about each case including the finding and sentence of the court martial. The system records details of cases in progress which are referred to as Judge Advocate Cases and completed cases which are referred to as Register Cases. How data was originally captured and validated: Data was entered in to the database via on screen forms. Validation performed after transfer: Details of the content and transformation validation checks performed by NDAD on each dataset are recorded in the catalogues of individual datasets.
This series comprises working records of Brompton Cemetery, relating to the layout of the cemetery, buildings and the use of burial space. It contains plans relating to the changes which took place under the supervision of the Office of Works and successors from 1852. For each compartment of the Cemetery there are several plans spanning the period from 1858, when the first detailed survey was carried out, to 1988 when the paper maps were superseded by electronic records. In May 1857 the Land Surveyor of the Office of Works and Public Buildings, Thomas Alexis Dash, was instructed to examine the ground of Brompton Cemetery with a view to the preparation of a plan. Dash produced his first copy of the plan in August 1858 but in outline only. The plan was of a suitable scale to allow for the identification of each burial plot using a five-figure digit, and was for convenience presented in sheets, one for each labelled compartment, with an index map to show the position of each compartment within the cemetery. Dash was then instructed to add the burial information to the basic plan. The burial numbers for all graves which had been purchased were added in accordance with the information held in the Burial Register. By 1859 this enabled the conveyance of Grants to all those possessing exclusive Rights of Burial. The plans were then used (in compliance with the 1832 Cemetery Companies Act) to show the place and situation of every grave, vault and place of burial made in the Cemetery, numbered in accordance with the entries made in the Burial Register. By 1885, all burials were numbered - private graves, vaults, catacombs, and common graves alike. In the 1860s the Cemetery administrators appear to have revised the extent of many of the compartments and created a number of new ones. TA Dash produced a revised index map in 1870 together with a set of revised compartment outline plans. In 1884 a third index map was produced followed by a further set of compartment plans, created in 1889 to which had been added the burial information recorded on the original (1858) plans. This third set carry TA Dash's Office of Works stamp, are dated 1889, and largely conform to the outline plans created in 1870. They were in use until 1988. Administrative history: In 1837, The West of London and Westminster Cemetery Company bought 40 acres of land from the estate of William Edwardes, 2nd Baron Kensington (1777-1852) in West Brompton. A design competition was held for the proposed cemetery. Benjamin Baud (assistant to the architect Sir Jeffry Wyatville) submitted the best designs for the buildings and walls; Stephen Geary was appointed architect; Isaac Finnemore and John Claudius Loudon (a garden designer and eminent horticultural writer) were the landscaping consultants. Brompton Cemetery was consecrated in 1840, but not all of the original 'garden-cemetery' design was realised, as The West of London and Westminster Cemetery Company ran into financial trouble. Brompton created an appealing environment, relatively free of regulations or restrictions. Provision was made for non-conformists and dissenters: separate Anglican and dissenter chapels were included in the original plans, and separate parts of the cemetery were designated. As a result, Brompton has been recognised as a national cemetery, serving as a resting place for anyone from any creed that does not have a national burial ground within the United Kingdom. The 1848-49 cholera epidemic in London prompted the government to create a public body - The General Board of Health. The Board had responsibility for creating new cemeteries, for forbidding burials in specific places (as required), and notably for compulsory purchase of the commercial cemeteries and putting them under state control. However, subsequent political constraints imposed on the Board resulted in only one commercial cemetery being purchased. The Board bought Brompton Cemetery in 1852 from its financially stretched Cemetery Company, so making it the first (and only) London cemetery to become Crown property. Brompton was conveyed to the Commissioners of Works and Public Buildings by deed under powers in section 45 of the Burial Act, 1852. As Crown property, all works relating to the buildings were the responsibility of the Office of Works, Royal Parks Division from 1852. The responsibility was passed to successor bodies: Ministry of Works and Buildings in 1940, Ministry of Works and Planning in 1942, Ministry of Works in 1943, Ministry of Public Buildings and Works in 1962. The new Department of the Environment (DoE) inherited responsibility for Brompton from the Ministry of Public Buildings and Works in 1970 (Statutory Instrument 1970/1681). The Department of National Heritage took over this responsibility from May 1992. Management of Brompton Cemetery passed to The Royal Parks Agency, established on 1 April 1993 as an Executive Agency of the Department of National Heritage (renamed in July 1997 the Department of Culture Media and Sport). Since the first burial in 1840, some 200,000 interments have taken place at Brompton of which 155,000 had taken place by 1889, and 198,000 by 1951. Arrangement: Index maps of the whole cemetery are followed by those for each compartment in alpha order by notation and with the numbered compartments and catacombs at the end.
This series contains files of: the Linesman/Mediator Project Authority of the ministries of Aviation and of Technology; the Directorate of Control (Linesman/Mediator) of the Board of Trade and the Department of Trade and Industry; and the Directorate of Data Processing (Air Traffic Services) of the Department of Trade and Industry and the Civil Aviation Authority. They relate to the development of air traffic control equipment and systems in the United Kingdom, Europe and to a degree the North Atlantic. Many of the files contain technical data. A small number of papers on the files date from the period after the establishment of the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) in 1972. The registry prefix TP was maintained. Administrative history: The Linesman/Mediator Project Authority was set up within the Ministry of Aviation in January 1965 and fell within the Electronics Division. This division was responsible for basic research on, and the development of, radar and other electronic equipment required by the fighting services and civil aviation, and for technical advice on overseas sales of British equipment. This work involved the direction of electronics research and development carried out in experimental establishments and in industry, the preparation and maintenance of inter-services catalogues and the standardization of components. The Linesman/Mediator Project Authority was established initially on a temporary basis to define Stage II of the Linesman/Mediator Project, with two staff (a director, at air commander level, and his personal assistant), but by November 1965 consisted of a staff of about twenty. Originally answerable to the Director General of Electronics Research and Development (DGLRD), it subsequently became responsible for the whole project under the Linesman/Mediator Steering Committee, answering to the DGLRD on administrative matters only. When the Ministry of Aviation was abolished in February 1967, its research and development functions passed to the Ministry of Technology (MINTECH) where the work on the project continued. In January 1968, the unit's terms of reference were revised to exclude Linesman Stage I. By January 1969, the air defence aspects of the project were largely well defined and the project authority, in determining the post-stage I requirements, was concerned almost exclusively with the air traffic control aspects of the system. The steering committee decided therefore that the project authority should in future operate within the National Air Traffic Control Service (NATCS), and be directly responsible to CNATS for the air traffic control requirements of the Linesman/Mediator project. As a consequence, the terms of reference were again redefined, and the Project Authority was transferred out of MINTECH and into the Board of Trade (BOT) with effect from 1 June 1969. At that point it became known as the Directorate of Control (Linesman/Mediator). The Department of Trade and Industry assumed responsibility in 1970. On 27 September 1971 when the Directorate of Data Processing (Air Traffic Services) came into being, and the Directorate of Control (Linesman/Mediator) was disbanded. The Directorate of Data Processing (Air Traffic Services) was made responsible for all aspects of air traffic services data processing, including those which the Directorate of Control (L/M) and the Directorate of Telecommunications (ATS) had previously held. The Directorate of Data Processing passed to the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA)on its establishment in April 1972. Arrangement: Abbreviations which occur in this series: ADMS Air Defence Movement Section AFTN Aeronautical Fixed Telecommunications Network ARC Air Responsibility Centre ASR Air Safety Regulations CAS Central Automation Systems Department CCTV Closed circuit television DC (O) Director Control Operations DC (P) Director Control Plans DCTE Deputy Chief Telecommunications Engineer DDGNS Direct General Navigational Services DSA Direct Aviation Supply DSF Direct Flight Safety FIS Flight Information Service FDPS Flight Data Processing System FPPS Flight Plan Processing System ICAO International Civil Aviation Authority LATCC London Air Traffic Control Centre MCL Marconi Company Limited NATCS National Air Traffic Control Services OAC Oceanic Air Control OACC Oceanic Area Control Centre SGS Supply Ground Services SSR Secondary Surveillance Radar SST Supersonic Transport Aircraft TMA Terminal Manoeuvring Area UAS Upper Air Space
This series contains Lord Justice du Parcq's inquiry into inter-service radio co-operation; minutes and papers of the Radio Board (in its various guises) and various sub-committees and panels appointed by the Board; correspondence files of the Secretary of the Board; and the Report by Lord Strang into Military and Civil Operational Use and Control of Radio in War. Administrative history: Following representations by a number of Members of Parliament on the state of inter-service wireless co-ordination and the supply of wireless components, Clement Attlee (the Deputy Prime Minster) invited Lord Justice du Parcq to hold an independent inquiry to determine whether there was full co-ordination between the armed services on communication on the battlefield and whether the production and supply situation was satisfactory [see CAB 118/77 : letter from Clement Attlee to Lord Justice du Parcq dated 2 May 1942]. At the same time, an inquiry was to be made by the Minister of Production to determine priorities for radio production. In his report [see CAB 66/27 (WP(42)352) and CAB 125/109 ], Lord Justice du Parcq endorsed the Minister of Production's proposal for the establishment of a Radio Board, which was then set-up on 22 September 1942 [see CAB 66/28 (WP(42)415) and CAB 125/109 ]. The Radio Board took over the functions of the Radio Policy Sub-committee of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, which was merged with the Board, and was to be responsible generally to the Minster of Production and to the Chiefs of Staff Committee on matters of service policy. The chair was to be Colonel J J Llewellin (Minister of Aircraft Production), with representatives from the Admiralty, War Office, Air Ministry, Ministry of Supply, Ministry of Aircraft Production, and the General Post Office (GPO). It was to be a committee of the Cabinet, with secretariat provided by the Air Ministry. The Board was to be responsible for a co-ordinated policy of development, production and research, to promote standardisation of equipment and to act as the channel of communication with the Dominion and Allied governments [see CAB 125/109 ]. Much of the work of the Board was to be carried out by two main working committees: the Production, Planning and Personnel Committee [see CAB 125/28 ], and the Operations and Technical Radio Committee [see CAB 125/11 ], supported by numerous sub-committees and panels. In October 1945, the Woking Party on a Proposed Radio and Cable Board was appointed [see CAB 125/6 ] and recommended that the Radio Board and the Imperial Communications Committee should be replaced by a single Cabinet committee to be called the Radio and Cable Board. A further working party [see CAB 125/7 ] met in October 1946 to discuss proposals for the reorganisation of all inter-departmental committees on radio and signalling. The Radio and Cable Board, chaired by Sir Stafford Cripps (President of the Board of Trade), held its first meeting on 9 October 1946 [see CAB 125/8 ], and acted as a co-ordinating committee supported by three main committees: the Research, Development and Production (Radio and Cable) Committee, with secretariat provided by the Ministry of Supply; the Services (Operational) Radio and Cable Committee, with secretariat provided in rotation by the Service departments; and the Civilian Communications Committee, with secretariat provided by the GPO. Its terms of reference were similar to those of the Radio Board and were extended to include cables and visual signalling. In December 1949, a working party was set-up to review the arrangements for inter-departmental co-ordination of radio and cable activities and its report [see CAB 129/46 (CP(51)157)] recommended that the Radio and Cable Board should be dissolved and the Frequency Committee be set-up. The Frequency Committee first met in August 1951 [see CAB 125/10 ]. Its terms of reference were to formulate the policy governing the regulation of radio frequency usage and the planning and allocation of frequencies. Arrangement: Subject and chronological
The volumes in this series record the entitlement to medals and awards of men and women serving in some capacity during the First World War. Most pieces concern those serving in the Army. Some, however, refer to the Royal Flying Corps/Royal Air Force (RFC/RAF); to civilians in military establishments, e.g. doctors and nurses in hospitals; to people mobilized for other war service, e.g. in colonial labour corps; and to allied personnel who assisted British soldiers behind enemy lines. The volumes also give the date the issue was approved and record the issue, or cross-refer to another issuing body, e.g. the Air Ministry for some members of the RFC/RAF receiving the British War and Allied Victory Medals. The medals and awards concerned are: The British War Medal; The Allied Victory Medal; The 1914 Star (the Mons Star) and bar added in 1919; The 1914-15 Star; The Territorial Force War Medal; The Allied Subjects Medal; The Silver War Badge for Services Rendered. Please note: The World War One medal index cards can be searched and downloaded. Campaign medal rolls (WO 329) are available to be searched online via Ancestry. Administrative history: The British War Medal The British War Medal, a silver medal, was approved in 1919. In the Army it was issued to those who entered a theatre of war on duty or rendered approved service overseas between 5 August 1914 and 11 November 1918. It was issued without the Allied Victory Medal to certain regular and mobilised personnel who did not see any active service. The medal was also awarded for certain specified services in Russia and some other areas during 1919 and 1920. Similar rules applied to those serving with the RAF/RFC. The award could be made posthumously. About six and a half million silver medals were issued. Some 110,000 British War Medals in bronze were issued to the Chinese, Maltese and Indian Labour Corps personnel, and a few other colonial units of a non-combatant and subsidiary nature. The Allied Victory Medal The Allied Victory Medal, a bronze medal, was awarded to all those who received the 1914 or 1914-15 Star (see below), and with certain exceptions, to those who received the British War Medal. It was never awarded alone. To be eligible it was necessary to have been mobilised in any of the fighting services and to have served in any of the theatres of operations between 5 August 1914 and 11 November 1918. In certain circumstances service up to 13 January 1919 was acceptable. Similarly, women who served (eg as nurses) could receive the award. The medal could be awarded posthumously. The 1914 Star The 1914 Star (popularly known as the Mons Star) was of bronze and was authorised in April 1917 to those who served in France or Belgium on the strength of a unit between 5 August and 22 November 1914. All officers and men of the British and Indian Expeditionary Forces, civilian doctors, nursing sisters, nurses and others employed in military hospitals were included. In October 1919 the King sanctioned the award of a bar to the Star to all who had been under fire in France and Belgium during the relevant period. The 1914-15 Star (a bronze star similar in design to the 1914 Star) was sanctioned in 1918 and awarded to all who saw service in any theatre of war against the Central Powers between 5 August 1914 and 31 December 1915, except those eligible for the 1914 Star. The Territorial Force War Medal The Territorial Force War Medal was approved in April 1920. The bronze medal was awarded to all members of the Territorial Force (including nursing sisters) who volunteered for overseas service not later than 30 September 1914 and who had so served between 4 August 1914 and 11 November 1918. They had to be serving in the Territorial Force on 4 August 1914 or must have completed four years Territorial Force service before that date and rejoined not later than 30 September 1914. In addition, they must not have been eligible for the 1914 Star or the 1914-15 Star. Eligibility terminated on 11 November 1918 although the dates 1914-1919 appear on the medal. The Allied Subjects Medal The Allied Subjects Medal was instituted in 1922 and awarded by the Foreign Office to Allied personnel who, at risk to their own lives or liberty, assisted British soldiers behind enemy lines during the War of 1914 to 1918. The medal was issued in silver or bronze, but in some cases only 'thank you' letters were despatched. The roll for this award (WO 329/2957) contains the names of French and Belgian men and women, and also of Danish, Dutch and other nationals, and their addresses are usually given. The Silver War Badge for Services Rendered The Silver War Badge for Services Rendered was authorised on 12 September 1916 for officers and men of HM Forces who had been retired or discharged on account of wounds or sickness caused by war service, at home or abroad from 4 August 1914. The regulations were extended on several later dates to include wider categories, including women.
This series consists of records of the Central Department C2 Branch (later C2 (AD) Army Department) relating to the department's responsibilities for a range of constitutional, parliamentary and general matters. These included printing, publications and stationery; the encipherment and decipherment of telegrams; the control of classified papers, pay and pensions; officers' commissions; letters patent and submissions to the Crown; courts martial warrants; some colonial, international and Northern Ireland matters; and decorations. The series contains notes of policies and precedents, and a partial index. Administrative history: The C2 Division has its origins in the re-organisation of the administration of the Army that was begun between 1854 and 1856 and which brought most of the important functions together in the newly formed War Office. In 1866 a Central Department was formed from the merger of several departments including that of the Chief and Assistant Chief Clerks which had themselves been united in 1861. This Central Department was under the control of the Under Secretary and was concerned with the conduct of constitutional or other matters that did not fall specifically under the responsibility of the Commander-in-Chief, the Surveyor-General, or the Financial Secretary. During the early 1870s there were further adjustments to the organisation of the department but by October 1878 it was clearly divided into four sub-divisions C1 to C4. C2's duties at that time included, correspondence on colonial and miscellaneous military subjects; stoppages of soldiers' pay under certain regulations, pensions and retired pay questions; disposal of lunatic soldiers' effects; recruitment of clerks etc in conjunction with the Civil Service Commission; preparation and issue of officers' commissions, court martial warrants; questions relating to the Victoria Cross, Order of the Bath, and foreign orders; military chaplains; grants to churches and schools; and submissions to the sovereign. These duties remained virtually unchanged until the end of the century when C2 also took on many of the duties previously the responsibility of C4 notably those concerning parliamentary business; all work on telegrams including their encipher and decipherment; printing and stationery and responsibility for confidential and secret papers. Of C2's previous work, only that on pensions and pay was passed elsewhere. The large scale re-organisations of the War Office in 1904 to 1906 saw C2s duties expand again so that in addition to its existing duties, it was now responsible for press enquiries and communiques and office accommodation. A further sub-section now dealt with the actuarial effects of proposals and the preparation of general returns and statistics was added to the division's tasks in about 1904. During the First World War, C2 took on actuarial questions concerning casualties, including correspondence with enemy countries and eventually incorporated the Prisoners of War Information Bureau; as far as possible the pre-war actuarial work was suspended to free staff for this new work. The most notable of its other duties that went elsewhere was that of controlling the secret and confidential papers. The end of the war brought a reduction in casualty and PoW work, although C2 retained general responsibility for dealing with enquiries on casualty and record of service matters. Yet by the early 1920s, C2 had grown in size with the expansion of its work controlling stationery, forms and army publication of which it now also controlled the printing, this being the responsibility of a separate sub-division. The early 1930s saw the re-organisation of the division into three sub-divisions. The first dealt with Parliamentary, legal investiture and certain decoration matters, letters patent and royal submissions. The second dealt with stationery, printing and publications, and the third was an information section concerned primarily with press communiques and press matters, although this last task was removed from C2 in 1936-1937. The Second World War saw a few increases to C2's work, one of these being its re-involvement from about 1942 in responsibility for various army funds, charitable organisations, grants to schools and churches and scholarships. From the early 1950s, C2's duties further included questions of access to closed documents, as well as information and co-ordination of work on international agreements. Following the 1964 re-organisation of the Ministry of Defence, C2 added Army Department (AD) to its title. By 1973, matters on Northern Ireland had been added to C2's tasks. In the mid-1970s, C2(AD) as a division finally disappeared, its work being taken on by other branches.
The BREAD (British Rail Electronically Archived Documents) dataset is an artificial collection of records from various sources. It was gathered together to provide a legal resource, to provide documentation supporting railway privatisation negotiations, and to enable the British Railway Board (BRB) to demonstrate compliance with legislation and regulations. The system was established by Rank Xerox for the BRB and consisted of three components: a Microsoft Access database, which acted as a catalogue; an Optika FilePower document management system that controlled the storage and retrieval of images of BRB documents; and an Oracle database, that was used to provide a link between the Access database and the images in the document management system. Each record in the Access database contains a brief description of the material to which the record relates, the BRB Department (or subsidiary company if appropriate) that had generated the material, correspondence reference, originator and time frame. To enable documents to be found, searches by document category, by BRB department (for which there are 20 departmental codes), by subsidiary company (183 codes), or by text may be made. There are twelve document categories, these are listed below with an approximate number of database entries for each category given in brackets: Blue Ink documents (17,000) mainly, signed contracts, licences or other legal documents. BRIS (British Rail Infrastructure Services) Data Room documents (11,500) which were scrutinised by potential purchasers prior to making bids for companies awaiting privatisation. Documents include financial analyses and asset registers, contracts both procurement and supply, personnel lists, accommodation, transfer schemes. Other Data Rooms (19,000), as BRIS but for Central Services and Freight Companies. Key Audit Trail Documentation (4,000) providing brief confirmation that sales have been undertaken in accordance with due process. Minutes of BR Board (3,500) including Board Executive and other senior BRB committees responsible for making decisions relating to aspects of privatisation. TOC (Train Operating Company) Board Minutes (1,000) including minutes from both Operational Management Board meetings and meetings of the Company Directors. Meeting papers (9,500), also meeting papers relating to TOC Committees (4,500) including supporting papers for Board Meetings. Working papers (4,000) of various senior BRB personnel involved in the privatisation process. Sales Bibles (3,000) essentially the solicitor's working papers relating to the sale of specific businesses. The papers are almost exclusively copies of documents such as Transfer Schemes, financial papers and key correspondence held elsewhere in the Privatisation Archive. Solicitors' Correspondence (2,000) covering key issues which may relate to the sale of several businesses. Transfer Schemes (11,500) were the mechanism used under the auspices of the Railways Act 1993 to transfer to subsidiary companies certain activities of the Board and the associated assets, liabilities and staff. This transfer enabled those activities of the Board undertaken by the subsidiary to be sold or otherwise transferred to the Private Sector. The Transfer Scheme documentation includes authorisation from the Secretary of State, asset/liability listings, contracts etc. Administrative history: An artificial collection compiled in 1997 from records of train operating companies (Board subsidiaries); freight companies (Board subsidiaries); British Rail Infrastructure Services; BRB solicitor; BRB Central Services. The British Rail Electronically Archived Documents (BREAD) system was developed for the Privatisation Transitional Team of the British Railways Board by an external contractor, Rank Xerox. The system had its origins in five separate databases developed by members of the Privatisation Transitional Team to assist with the management of the largely paper based privatisation archive. As a consequence of the process of privatising British Rail (BR) between 1993 and 1997 the British Railways Board (BRB) identified a need to develop and improve its records management procedures. Records management was given a high priority to assist the Board in defending against potentially expensive litigation resulting from privatisation but also to comply with their obligation to keep historic records, to assist in negotiations and to demonstrate compliance with legislation and regulatory requirements. This lead to a decision that records from all business units and divisions of BR should be retained including contracts, agreements and leases, licences, board minutes and associated papers, formal company documentation and statutory notices. The Board's Secretariat was initially responsible for records management but as privatisation progressed and the privatisation archive grew in size responsibility was delegated to a Transitional Team that was established to support the transfer of the Board's post privatisation responsibilities. As the rail privatisation process progressed an archive consisting of some 7,500 boxes containing 1.5-2 million documents was established at BRB headquarters. Individual members of the BRB Transitional Team took responsibility for specific sections of the archive and five separate databases were created to assist with the management of the archive. By late 1997 a number of issues had arisen that required the BRB to develop a more simplified strategy for managing the privatisation archive. The sale of the Board's premises at Euston House and relocation to their current premises at Whittles House, a requirement for duplicate copies of certain key documents to be held away from the main archive and the decision to disband the Transitional Team created difficulties in managing the archive efficiently. In addition the closure of Euston House led to a significant increase in the physical size of the archive from 7,500 boxes to 10,000 boxes by the end of 1997. Following the move to Whittles House, the privatisation archive was placed in a commercial storage facility. Before the archive was transferred to storage, however, the BRB had reached the decision to make key papers available to staff electronically. As a first step the Transitional Team's five databases were merged in to a single Microsoft Access database containing approximately 91,000 records. Following a tender process Rank Xerox were appointed as contractors to provide a full electronic archive that used the Access database as a catalogue linking to selected images of documents from the privatisation archive. Arrangement: Hardware: The BREAD system was run on PCs connected to a Novell Netware 3.2 server, and these were used to access the Microsoft Access database and Optika FP Multi document management software. The server was connected to two additional PCs; one acting as a server for Optika FilePower, the other running the Oracle database. Operating System: Microsoft Windows NT4 (previously Windows 3.1). Application Software: Microsoft Access 2 was used to provide a catalogue of the documents in the privatisation archive. Optika FilePower 4.5 document management system was used for the storage and retrieval of document images. Oracle 8.04 provided a link between the Access database and the document management system. User Interface: User access to the system was via the Microsoft Access. Logical structure and schema: Both datasets are derived from Microsoft Access database files containing five distinct data tables. The first dataset transfer in 2000 also included the document images from the Optika system and supporting data files. How data was originally captured and validated: The Access database was created by merging five existing databases. Updates and searches were performed using database queries and on-screen forms. The BREAD system was created as a catalogue of an existing body of documents, it is dynamic in the sense that ongoing editing of the data may still be possible but it was transferred to NDAD as a final state snapshot. Validation performed after transfer: Details of the content and transformation validation checks performed by NDAD staff on the datasets are contained in the catalogues of individual datasets.
This series contains Secretariat Papers relating to legislation affecting the administration of historic buildings and ancient monuments; and the establishment of the relationships between proposed or newly-created heritage bodies with other agencies involved in the preservation of the built environment. The papers are unregistered and include papers from the office of the first Chief Executive of the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England (HBMCE), now known as English Heritage. Administrative history: In England the period 1970 to 1992 began with consolidation of responsibility for preservation of the built environment into one department of state, the Department of the Environment (DoE). Later, responsibilities for advice, care and maintenance were devolved to sponsored bodies, whilst the DoE retained responsibility for policy, decisions on listing, scheduling and taking monuments into care, and planning issues. Government reorganisation following the general election in 1992 transferred responsibility for most of DOE's heritage matters (including sponsorship responsibilities and conservation policy) to the newly created Department of National Heritage (DNH). However, responsibility for planning policy remained with DoE. At the same time, many more government departments were being involved in the preservation of the built environment partly due to a policy change in the allocation of responsibility for the maintenance of the government estate, but also as a result of the widening scope of the protected built environment. The Department of the Environment (DoE) was established in November 1970 by merger of three existing Ministries: Public Buildings and Works; Housing and Local Government; and Transport. This followed a Machinery of Government Review and the subsequent publication of the Reorganisation of Central Government White Paper (Cmnd 4506) in September 1970. The areas of DoE's responsibility relating to preservation of the built environment in England were inherited from the Ministry of Public Buildings and Works (care and preservation of ancient monuments and royal palaces), and the Ministry of Housing and Local Government (care and preservation of listed buildings and conservation areas and planning control). Within DoE duties remained divided until a new unified Directorate was established in 1972. The role of the new Directorate of Ancient Monuments and Historic Buildings (DAMHB) was to carry out archaeological excavation; advise on the treatment, care and preservation, display and commercial management of ancient monuments and historic buildings, including those on the government estate; advise on the payment of grants to owners of listed buildings and ancient monuments; to administer and regulate the royal parks and have special responsibility for the royal palaces. Three bodies continued to function as separate units within the new DoE Directorate of Ancient Monuments and Historic Buildings until 1984: the Ancient Monuments Board for England, the Inspectorate of Ancient Monuments and the Historic Buildings Council for England. The Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England (known as English Heritage) was established as an independent body sponsored by DoE under the National Heritage Act 1983. Its board of Commissioners was set up in October 1983; formal operation began in April 1984. Responsibility for the care and preservation of England's national monuments passed from the DAHMB to the new Commission and two former advisory bodies (The Ancient Monuments Board for England and The Historic Buildings Council for England) ceased to exist. Whilst much of the responsibility for ancient monuments and historic buildings in England subsequently moved to English Heritage in April 1984, the DoE Directorate of Ancient Monuments and Historic Buildings retained responsibility for the royal palaces, royal parks, the Tower of London (the Armouries were the responsibility of a separate Board of Trustees from April 1984), Trafalgar Square, and Osborne House. A new Heritage Sponsorship Division was created within the DoE Directorate to take responsibility for heritage policy, European and international heritage matters, listing and scheduling, building consent casework and policy, conservation areas policy, heritage taxation, and sponsorship of heritage bodies such as English Heritage and The Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England. It became responsible subsequently for heritage funds. The DoE's Property Services Agency (PSA) retained responsibility for the maintenance of the historic buildings in the government estate throughout the UK from 1972 to 1990.This departmental agency was created in September 1972 largely from the former works departments of the Ministry of Public Buildings and Works, which by then included responsibility for the Armed Services Works Directorates. The Defence Lands Service was added from the Ministry of Defence in 1972. At the abolition of the Greater London Council (GLC) in 1986 (under the Local Government Bill 1984) English Heritage took on the responsibilities formerly carried out by the GLC's Historic Buildings Division. These included care of the historic buildings formerly owned by the GLC, and responsibility for the London Sites and Monuments Register and for historic building planning consent within the former GLC area. By 1988 individual government departments had been encouraged to assume financial responsibility for their own accommodation. In 1990 PSA was restructured and, as PSA Services, was grouped within a new organisational unit within DoE called Property Holdings. PSA Services was eventually privatised in 1992. Historic Royal Palaces Agency (HRPA) was established in October 1989 as an executive agency of the DoE as part of the Next Steps initiative. Responsibility for all matters relating to those royal palaces open to the public (including the Tower of London) passed to the new agency. It was responsible for the care, preservation and presentation to the public of the five unoccupied historic royal palaces in England, which are owned by The Queen on behalf of the nation. These were HM Tower of London (excluding The Armouries), Hampton Court Palace, Kensington Palace State Apartments, the Banqueting House at Whitehall, Kew Palace and Queen Charlotte's Cottage. DoE retained responsibility for the occupied royal palaces and Osborne House, as well as for statues and monuments. In 1991 DoE began reviewing its responsibility for the royal parks and the Royal Parks Constabulary. However, matters were not resolved until after the creation of DNH in 1992. Responsibilities held by the Royal Parks Division of DNH passed to The Royal Parks Agency - a Next Steps executive agency created in 1993. The Department of National Heritage (DNH) was created in May 1992 amalgamating functions previously scattered between several government departments. In terms of the preservation of the built environment, responsibility for most of DoEs heritage matters passed to DNHs Heritage and Royal Estate Divisions, including its sponsorship of heritage bodies and heritage funds, and liaison with the voluntary sector. Responsibility for planning decisions remained with the DoE.
This series contains LN and other series files of general correspondence and papers and other records relating to certain wartime functions of the Ministry of Health. These included duties in connection with civil defence, manpower, war damage, evacuation and billeting, care of children and the homeless, accommodation for emergency hospitals, children's homes and maternity homes, emergency water supplies, and related financial matters. The files include some of the London regional organization. Files of other regional organizations have largely been destroyed. Some records in the department deal exclusively with certain war-time functions which have no parallel in peace-time. These records are held in this series. Wartime aspects of normal peace-time functions are held in the appropriate series according to the function. The major services created by the Ministry of Health to meet the emergencies of war were the Emergency Hospital Scheme, the Shelter Health Service, the Evacuation Scheme and the Service for the Homeless. The papers relating to the last two Services were inherited by the Ministry of Housing and Local Government on its creation in 1951. Some papers on the Service for the Homeless (e.g. Requisitioning), may be found in the HLG series dealing with'Emergency Housing' because there was no clear break between wartime and peacetime functions. The series includes files from the 92,000 series ( HLG 101 ). Administrative history: The department was concerned with the supply of manpower for certain essential services, deferment of military service, essential works orders and transfers of labour. The post-war re-allocation of manpower was also the responsibility of the department. In 1938 the Home Secretary appointed a Committee (the Anderson Committee) to review the problem of transferring persons from areas likely to be exposed to continuous air attack. The Committee reported in 1938 (Cmd. 5837) A bound volume of the committee's unpublished papers is held in a confidential branch of the Library. After the publication of the Committees report, the Government decided that the Minister of Health would undertake preparation of plans for evacuation in conjunction with the Lord Privy Seal as minister responsible for the co-ordination of civil defence - Local administration would be in the hands of local authorities. The Evacuation Division of the ministry was set up in 1938: to facilitate the administration of its civil defence services the ministry then created a regional organisation based on the civil defence regions. Comprehensive plans were approved before war broke-out to secure the continued functioning of these services. Reserves of material and equipment were built up with exchequer assistance and schemes of mutual assistance worked out. The Government's official scheme for dispersal and evacuating priority series from congested areas and distributing them more evenly over the rest of the country was put into operation on the 31st August 1939. A drift back to the evacuation areas followed the absence of bombing and a second evacuation scheme, restricted to unaccompanied school children was drawn up for implementation if bombing started. The scheme was put into operation in June and July 1940 and later increased in scope to include homeless mothers with children and all mothers and children. Organised parties were again evacuated with the flying bomb attacks of 1944 and the danger areas altered. The organised return of evacuees took place in May 1945. The difficulties of people living in defence areas led to some financial aid. The service was provided so that people made homeless by enemy action could be found food and somewhere to sleep immediately they were bombed out until they could return to their homes or be billeted or rehoused. The service in embryo was based on Rest Centres organised by Public Assistance Authorities but after the September 1940 raids, the provision for the homeless was made a separate service operated by local authorities with government grant. A special Commissioner for the Homeless was appointed in the London Civil Defence Region and an inspectorate to deal with welfare and rehousing. Information and Administrative centres were set up, the Rest Centres extended and the work of voluntary bodies mobilised and co-ordinated. The minister had power to requisition premises under the Defence (General) Regulations, 1939. It was delegated to local authorities who referred individual cases to the department. The power was used in the first instance for civil defence and billeting purposes. It was extended to rehouse families rendered homeless by bombing and for housing persons on work of national importance. In 1939 the department issued Circular No. 1779 on the treatment of civilian deaths due to war operations. Subsequently numerous schemes were examined and instructions issued to local authorities on the identification and burial of civilian victims (including C.D. personnel) of enemy action. The schemes included arrangements for burial and funeral expenses, the disposal of property and documents of unidentified casualties, the provision of special mortuary accommodation by major authorities and the marking and upkeep of graves. A proposal for the burial of civilian casualties in a 'Garden of Honour' was considered but not adopted. The Housing (Emergency Powers) Act, 1939, empowered local authorities to carry out repairs to dwellings damaged by enemy action. The Essential Buildings and Plant (Repair of War Damage) Act, 1939, covered repair of war damage to non-domestic buildings and plants essential to the civil population. These were followed by the Repair of War Damage Act, 1941 which was a more comprehensive measure. The execution of the heavy programme of repairs in London, required co-operation between the Ministries of Works, Health, Labour and the War Damage Commission. This was effected by the London Repairs Executive which continued until June 1945. It was then replaced by the London Housing Committee under the aegis of the Minister of Health to integrate war damage repairs with other housing work. Supplies for the war emergency services became so extensive, variable and difficult to get that central purchase became necessary as well as local purchase on the ministry's account. A set of R.O.A.'s containing advice to Regional Officers of the Ministry mainly on the special war-time functions of the department is deposited in this series. District Auditors were given special duties regarding emergency war services. The important files of the Chief Inspector of Audit who oversaw this aspect of the work of the auditors have been deposited in this series:- (a) Emergency General - cover such subjects as check of emergency claims, A.R.P. and emergency hospital records, house repair accounts under the War Damage Acts, protection of L.A. records and their reconstruction if destroyed. The expenses of L.A. in re-housing the homeless and practically any other war-time expenditure was covered. (b) Area Finance Audit Officers were appointed as Regional Finance Officers and were empowered to requisition and disburse cash in any emergency. These powers were held by Audit from September 1939 until 31st December 1941. (c) Billeting Audit Inspectors were responsible for investigating billeting questions and the recovery of billeting expenses where applicable.
These records formed part of a collection of Venetian state papers made by Rawdon Lubbock Brown, an English scholar resident in Venice for fifty years from 1833. Since 1862 he had been employed as an editor by the Public Record Office. There is an appreciable amount of copied or extracted material, some copied at the time of its production, some later (but before Brown's time), and the rest during his lifetime, often at the instigation of Italian friends who shared his interest in Venetian history. There is a significant amount of original material, in manuscript and print, which Brown started buying in the 1830s. The most important part of this, the Tiepolo-Contarini collection, in 80 lots,was purchased by him in 1837 for his compatriot Edward Cheney, who gave it to Brown in 1840. The importance of the collection lies in the light it throws on Venetian and European history, particularly in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries, from ambassadorial despatches, reports, diaries, itineraries and from manuscript gazettes, avvisi, or newsletters reporting on Venice and all the capitals where the Republic was represented diplomatically. The superiority of the schematic reports (relazioni) made by Venetian ambassadors on their return from diplomatic service in any one country abroad or Italian state, and read by them in the Senate, was universally acknowledged at an early date, which accounts for the existence of copies of so many of them. The manuscript gazettes (riporti) were sold in Venice for a 'gazeta' (a coin) long before 1600; the earliest in this collection dates from 1634. This series contains diplomatic records which relate to the administrative history of Venice and its dependencies. These include ambassadors' reports and despatches; manuscript newsletters from European capitals; material on the career of Venetian ambassador Francesco Contarini (d 1624); documents in cypher; letters and instruments to and from the Senate (Pregadi); papers of the doges (some of which are brilliantly illuminated) and of the Grand Council and Council of Ten; records of the Inquisitors of State; and documents concerning Brown's own interest in Cervantes, Shakespeare, heretics and gypsies. There are also reports from local governors and captains, naval material, items relating to Englishmen in Venice and records of the State Inquisitors and Officio della Sanita. The policing of the city and the detail of community regulation of lighting and burial in Venice in the eighteenth century are documented, and there are lists of officials, such as ambassadors and procurators (proctors) of St Marks. The vast majority of these records are in Italian: a limited number of documents, usually formal, legal or papal or reproduced antiques are in Latin, a few in French or English, and very few in other European languages. Arrangement: The present numbering of the pieces in this list was not the original one. Previous numbers appear on green and gold stickers in the centre of the front covers of the portfolios which constitute the first 20 pieces, and they do not follow the same sequence. The present numbering appears on an oval blue and white sticker at the top of the front covers. Inside each of the front covers appears a summary of the contents headed by what at first appears to be yet another numbering system, again no longer in sequence. This consists of two sets of numbers, such as 108.181. It will be seen however that the second set (181) corresponds to the number in the centre of the front cover, a number occasionally referred to by Rawdon Brown in his annotations as the 'busta' number. 'Busta' in Italian means a cardboard case or envelope, and discloses the arrangement of the records inherited, if not devised, by Brown. The list is a slightly rearranged and updated version of an older calendar which provided information, if supplied on the documents themselves by Brown or his collaborators, about the archival source of copied material. Where the documents are loose (fascicoli), as in the first 20 pieces, there is no consecutive foliation. Folio numbers appear from time to time, but relate to dispersed volumes from which these documents have been extracted, so they are inept for citation. The volumes in this series are sometimes paginated consecutively, but the riporti (manuscript gazettes) are usually not, in which case dates and locations following the piece number are the safest method of citation. The first 20 pieces in this series are portfolios of loose documents. The list does not indicate that each carries spinal lettering intended to indicate a theme for the contents. It should, however, be noted that these themes are not rigidly adhered to. The arrangement of the subject matter is as follows (spinal titles continue after PRO 30/25/20 for the volumes that constitute most of the rest of the series, but need no further consideration here, as the volumes are uniformly thematic): PRO 30/25/1 ; SUBJECT: Venetian Mss PRO 30/25/2 ; SUBJECT: Affari di polizia della Citta di Venezia PRO 30/25/3 ; SUBJECT: Congiure Bajamonte Tiepolo, Bedoar, etc PRO 30/25/4 ; SUBJECT: Regno di Cipro PRO 30/25/5 ; SUBJECT: Malta PRO 30/25/6 ; SUBJECT: Spagna (but see the note on this piece below) PRO 30/25/7 ; SUBJECT: Toscana Bianca Capello PRO 30/25/8 ; SUBJECT: Toscana Relazioni PRO 30/25/9 ; SUBJECT: Francia Relazioni PRO 30/25/10 ; SUBJECT: Procuratori di San Marco PRO 30/25/11 ; SUBJECT: Ambasciatori Veneti (see note below) PRO 30/25/12 ; SUBJECT: Ambasciatori Veneti PRO 30/25/13 ; SUBJECT: Venezia e Francia Carteggi PRO 30/25/14 ; SUBJECT: Fra Paolo Politica PRO 30/25/15 ; SUBJECT: Fra Paolo Politica (the first two words deleted in pencil) PRO 30/25/16 ; SUBJECT: Dogi: Atti etc aspettano al Doge. PRO 30/25/17 ; SUBJECT: Napoli Sicilia Relazioni etc; Gambling; Galley Slaves PRO 30/25/18 ; SUBJECT: Costantinopoli Relazioni etc PRO 30/25/19 ; SUBJECT: Roma. Relazioni Francesco Contarini, etc PRO 30/25/20 ; SUBJECT: Roma. Relazioni, etc Quite a few documents contain endorsements by the official to whom they were addressed, which are not recorded in the piece descriptions. Endorsements may be confined to a date of receipt, but they often give particulars of a course of action taken in consequence of the receipt of the document. Note also that in the piece descriptions the term 'letters', usually in the case of missives from the Senate or Council of Ten or any Venetian executive, does not necessarily confer plurality: check if only one date is specified in the date column. 'Letters' was used in the original list as a term for an official instruction.
Ordnance Survey became involved with the mapping of rights of way as a result of the system of recording public rights of way set up under the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act, 1949 and developed through subsequent legislation. The 1949 Act did not apply to the Administrative County of London, and some county boroughs; but the Ordnance Survey Archive may contain information relating to rights of way in these areas. This series contains source material supplied to the Ordnance Survey by Central Government Departments and Local Authorities in England and Wales, and held within the Ordnance Survey Rights of Way Archive as 'Public Path Orders'. The Ordnance Survey Rights of Way Archive is the record of all rights of way information received by the Ordnance Survey from various sources, in order to carry out its mapping task for England and Wales. It records how and when that information was applied to detail on the ground, and thus to the national mapping. Ordnance Survey agreed to show the rights of way information (as depicted on Definitive Maps created by the Local Authorities) on the national mapping of England and Wales, and did so from 1960. The Definitive Maps are statutory documents which are intended to show the complete network of public rights of way in each local authority area at a given relevant date. Public Path Orders and Definitive Map Modification Orders generated by the Local Authorities are a vital source of rights of way changes approved between publications of successive editions of the Definitive Maps. The Ordnance Survey Public Path Orders Archive treated all types of order simply as mapping intelligence source material for derivation of map detail. From 1965 Public Path Orders have been received at the Ordnance Survey on a daily basis and, subject to them being operative, have enabled revision of its public rights of way information for England and Wales without being dependent on the publication of new editions of Definitive Maps. Rights of way as shown on the Definitive Maps have legal authority under the 1949 Act, hence the use of a disclaimer by the Ordnance Survey on their own mapping since it was an interpretation of the legal position. Public Path Orders supplied to the Ordnance Survey, vary in detail. In general each will carry a covering letter from the source authority, and a copy of the legal instrument, including a map and written description of the instrument (including any existing and new alignment of the right of way as appropriate). This will provide details of the applicable legislation under which the Order is made, and the operable date which will confirm the legal status. A schedule of conditions will be included as applicable. The map contained within the Order, will have been created by the source authority, often using OS base mapping - usually at a scale of 1:2500 or 1:1250. The Ordnance Survey will have added the date of receipt of the Order; a library reference number to link it with the OS annotations to the definitive map; and the date on which action was applied to the Ordnance Survey's published mapping. The files in this series also include records of ongoing consultation between the OS and the local authorities regarding rights of way, as triggered by various map revision programmes. These records include sketch maps, diagrams and photographs of maps with annotations indicating changes which have been included in subsequent published mapping. Correspondence with the Ramblers' Association is also included. On receipt of Public Path Orders, Ordnance Survey staff first checked the operative status (i.e. that it had been confirmed as effective or in force), labelled it with the details of the location of the area affected (the County in which it fell, or the relevant National Grid coordinates) and the sheet numbers for mapping series affected by the change (the one-inch series, the Landranger 1:50,000 series, the Pathfinder, Outdoor Leisure or Explorer series at 1:25,000, or Tourist maps). Ordnance Survey has received Public Path Orders from the Ministry of Housing and Local Government, the Ministry of Transport, the Department of the Environment, Ministry of Defence and The Welsh Office, as well as from local authorities (including orders made by Magistrates Courts). Their effects on the rights of way network have been indicated on copies of the Definitive Maps held by Rights of Way Section of the Ordnance Survey. Because of the complexities of the legal procedures there are many different types of Public Path Order, and the wording varies according to the section of the Act under which the Order was made. Public Path Orders can authorise the creation of new rights of way, can divert or extinguish existing ways, and since 1968, can re-classify existing routes. They are the result of road and rail schemes, urban development, and more efficient use of agricultural land. These orders were categorised by the Ordnance Survey as 'Amending Orders' which change the status of the route on the ground. Modification Orders, introduced in 1981, change the status of a route on the Definitive Map and thus facilitate continuous review of that map. Amending Orders and Modification Orders are processed by the Ordnance Survey in the same way, although some Modification Orders may duplicate corresponding Amending Orders which have already been received. This is likely to be reflected in the series content. A Validation Instruction confirms a Public Path Order as operative. Administrative history: The National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act of 1949 provided for classification of three types of public rights of way in England and Wales to be defined on maps of an appropriate scale, on the basis of surveys carried out by parish councils, and other local bodies, who were to submit information to the local authorities. Under the legislation the local authorities were required to prepare Definitive Maps and to publish, review and republish them at regular intervals - intended to be every five years. These maps were to be accompanied by Definitive Statements which were to be written descriptions of all rights of way shown on the Definitive Maps. In 1958, following representations from the Ministry of Housing and Local Government, the Ordnance Survey agreed to show rights of way, as defined by the 1949 Act, on its mapping. This had been a recommendation of the National Parks Commission (chaired by Sir Arthur Hobhouse), made in its report to the Minster of Town and Country Planning in 1947. The rights of way shown on the Definitive Maps had legal authority under the Act, but there were complications associated with their representation on the national mapping. The concern was to make it possible to keep the Ordnance Survey mapping up-to-date in the face of continuous amendment of the network made through Public Path Orders used by local authorities to amend published editions of the Definitive Maps. Ordnance Survey Policy Statement No 55, published in 1959, indicated that the national mapping would show all the public rights of way included on Definitive Maps of a certain date. However, Public Path Orders were used to update the Ordnance Survey mapping between editions of the Definitive Maps, subject to the Order being operative. Rights of way covered by the 1949 Act included footpaths, bridleways and roads used as public paths (RUPPs). Following the report of the Committee on Footpaths (chaired by Sir Arthur Gosling), the 1968 Countryside Act introduced a process for reclassifying roads used as public paths, introducing byways open to all traffic (BOATs). From this date the Ordnance Survey began to receive from the local authorities the results of the special reviews set up under the 1968 Act (Reclassification Orders), and introduced a new map symbol for byways. The Local Government Act 1972 created new counties and transferrred areas between counties. This necessitated a rearrangement of Ordnance Survey holdings of Definitive Map cover and the Amending Orders filing system. Within this Right of Way Archive names of local authorities were changed only when new Definitive Maps were published. The 1981 Wildlife and Countryside Act abolished the requirement for five-year reviews of Definitive Maps (requiring the local authorities to keep all rights of way under continuous review), and introduced Modification Orders in England and Wales. These Orders were supplied to the Ordnance Survey from this date. The series also includes Orders made under the Town and Country Planning Acts of 1971 and 1990, the New Towns Act of 1946, and the Highways Acts of 1959, 1971 and 1980; as well as those made to cover temporary effects of the Mineral Working Act of 1951 and the Road Traffic Regulations Act of 1967. Statutory obligations to supply the Ordnance Survey was established in 1993 for Public Path Orders made under the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 - Statutory Instrument 1993/10; and under the Highways Act 1980 - Statutory Instrument 1993/11. The Countryside and Rights of Way Act (CRoW) 2000 also extended public access, and indentified Open Access Areas, established by Commencement Orders. These changes are depicted on the Conclusive Maps produced by the Countryside Agency (now part of Natural England) and the Countryside Council for Wales. These are regional definitive maps, produced between 2001 and 2005, recording land which qualifies as open country or registered common land. The areas thus defined have been incorporated on the Ordnance Survey Explorer mapping - which replaced the Outdoor Leisure mapping in 2002. The Ordnance Survey's Rights of Way Section was from the outset a part of the Directorate of Small and Medium Scales. From 1961 this became the Directorate of Map Production and Publication, and from 1968 simply the Directorate of Map Publication. Internal restructuring by 1979 created the Directorate of Surveys and Production which in 1991 included the Rights of Way Section as part of the Small Scale Services Branch, in turn part of Carto 3 Division. The Section was responsible for maintaining the public rights of way information published on the Pathfinder, Outdoor Leisure, Landranger and Tourist Maps series. In 1994 a new operational unit was created entitled 'Mapping Intelligence', which included Rights of Way, Tourism, Small Scale Carto, large Scale Carto, and a supporting survey unit. Mapping intelligence was part of the Directorate of Data Collection until 2003, when it moved into the new Directorate of Data Collection and Management. Arrangement: From 1965 to 9 January 1996, the Public Path Orders are filed alphabetically by county name, and are in numerical order within each county, although some are unnumbered (pieces 1-1161). There are also a few files which were kept detached from their main county grouping (pieces 1162-1196). After 9 January 1996 they are alphabetically arranged by National Grid 100 km square reference (e.g. NT), and are in chronological order within each grid square reference (pieces 1197-1847).
The Schools' Census datasets contain data on individual schools derived from their Schools' Census returns. Data is currently available for the following years: 1975-2001. The data for the years 1975-1994 are divided into datasets which are based on the major categories of schools covered by the census. The following list outlines the sub-series of datasets which are currently available: Primary, middle and secondary schools: 1975-1994; Special schools: 1975-1994; Nursery schools: 1977-1994; Independent schools: 1975-1994. After 1994, the Department continued to collect information on all the above school types, but no longer maintained the data in separate datafiles. The datasets for 1975-1977 contain records on schools in England and Wales. From 1978 onwards only English schools are included, except in the datasets for independent schools, which continue to include Welsh schools up until 1985. For reasons which are unclear, the independent school datasets for 1975-1976 also contain data on LEA-maintained and direct-grant nursery schools. From 1977 onwards, data on nursery schools is held in separate datasets. The datasets provide the following types of information: Basic details about schools, such as the school's LEA and region, the type of school, any denominational affiliation, the sex of the pupils, and the school's establishment number. Establishment numbers (known as ESTAB or SCH numbers) act as a unique identifier for each school when combined with its LEA number. The names of schools are not included in the datasets, although it may be possible to identify schools using another database transferred to NDAD, the Register of Educational Establishments (see Related Material). Numbers of pupils by age, sex, whether full-time or part-time, and (for pupils with special educational needs) by type of disability. The latter data is not included in the 1989-1994 datasets. Numbers of staff by sex, type and whether full-time or part-time, plus the full-time equivalents of part-time staff. Data on classes on the registers of the school and classes taught at a particular period of the school day, by type of class, numbers of pupils, and numbers of teachers teaching. Data on courses of study in secondary and independent schools, including the numbers of pupils by age and sex pursuing examination courses ('A' level, 'O'/CSE level etc). This data is not included in the datasets for 1986-1991 inclusive; after 1992 it is reinstated. The datasets in this series are available to download. Links to individual datasets can be found at piece level. Administrative history: Within the DfEE and its predecessors responsibility for conducting the Schools' Census and analyzing the data passed successively through a number of divisions. At the time of the census in January 2001 this responsibility rested with Qualifications, Pupil Assessment and Information Technology Support Division (QPAI) within the Analytical Services Directorate of the DfEE's Finance and Analytical Services Directorate. Two teams within the QPAI dealt with the Schools' Census: the Data Collection Unit, which prepared and validated the data; and the Schools Statistical Unit, whose statisticians designed the survey and analysed the data. During the 1990s the Information Technology Branch and its successors, the Information Systems Branch, the Information Systems Division and the Information Services Division appear to have temporarily absorbed the IT functions of Analytical Services Branch, including the Data Collection Unit. From ca. 1992 until 1999 they also ran a Corporate Data Archive in which Schools' Census data and data from other surveys was preserved. Responsibility for the Archive was transferred to Analytical Services Directorate in 1999 as they 'owned' most of the data. Little is known about the early history of the Schools' Census. Education statistics based on annual returns submitted by schools have been published at a national level since at least 1905. Form 7 returns for LEA-maintained schools are thought to have been introduced in 1945-1946. Independent schools were required to provide information for the Schools' Census as a result of provisions in the Education Act 1944 and the Independent Schools Registration Regulations 1957, which required independent schools to furnish annual returns of changes to their pupils, boarders and teaching staff. In more recent years, the statutory basis of the Schools' Census was apparently provided by section 537 of the Education Act 1996. This required the governing bodies of LEA-maintained schools and the proprietors of independent schools to provide such information as might be required by the Secretary of State for Education. Data from the Schools' Census was used to calculate schools' per capita allocation of funding, leading to a high response rate (around 95 percent in 1998). The information was used for a variety of purposes within the DfEE and its predecessors, including setting priorities and answering questions from official, parliamentary and private sources. Data on pupil numbers was used to assess LEAs' rate support grants and to project pupil numbers in future years; data on the numbers of teachers was used to assess national staffing levels. LEAs also used the data for their own capitation purposes, staffing allocations and for projecting pupil numbers and staffing levels in the future. Information derived from the Schools' Census was used by the DfEE and its predecessors to produce a number of statistical publications. The final Schools' Census was conducted by the DfEE in January 2001. In 2000 and 2001 pilots were carried out in selected schools of a Pupil Level Annual Schools' Census (PLASC), intended to replace the Schools' Census in all LEA-maintained primary, middle, secondary and special schools in England from January 2002. Most of the data in PLASC returns will be generated automatically from schools' information management systems. Unlike Schools' Census returns, records on individual pupils will be included. Arrangement: Hardware: ICL (possibly an ICL 2900) until c 1993, when the mainframe was decommissioned. Thereafter networked PCs. ASCII files exported from the SIR database were stored on magnetic tapes until c 1992, when migrated to optical disks; these were inherited by Analytical Services Directorate in 1999. Operating System: GEORGE III until 1988, when replaced by VME. After the decommissioning of the mainframe, SIR ran on UNIX. Also MS DOS and Microsoft Windows (various). Application Software: The production and subsequent use of Schools' Census datasets at the DfEE and its predecessors involved two separate operations, for which different packages were used. These operations were: The initial inputting and validation of the data. The subsequent analysis and tabulation of the data to produce published statistics. The SIR relational database management system manufactured by SIR Pty Ltd is thought to have been for the first purpose from the 1970s. These datasets were also imported into the analysis packages used by Analytical Services' statisticians. During the 1970s and 1980s they used two applications, thought to have been developed in-house, about which little information is available: 'Stages' (used in the 1970s) is thought to have been a batch processing based system, while its successor 'Fasolt' (standing for 'facility for on-line tabulation') was used in the 1980s. It is believed that by the early 1990s these utilities had been replaced by QuickTab. By 2000 the DfEE were analysing Schools' Census data using QuickTab's successor, QStat. The Department for Education and Skills intended to replace QStat with SPSS for data analysis purposes once PLASC was introduced to all LEA-maintained primary, middle, secondary and special schools. By October 2001 the Data Collection Unit was also in transition from using SIR to using Microsoft SQL Server for building 'collecting' databases for the surveys with which it dealt. Logical structure and schema: The datasets normally consist of a single table per dataset. The exceptions to this are the 1976, 1992, 1993 and 1994 datasets for primary, middle and secondary schools. For 1976, tables were created by NDAD to facilitate access to the data. 1992 and 1993 have three tables per dataset; the 1994 dataset has four tables. The datasets for 1995-1997 have six tables, while those for 1998-2001 have seven. How data was originally captured and validated: Schools' Census data was gathered through forms which were completed by schools in January each year. Most questions asked schools to supply data reflecting the situation on an enumeration date, traditionally the third Thursday in January. In later years schools were increasingly asked to supply data for periods other than the enumeration date. The forms for LEA-maintained schools were distributed and collected by LEAs, which would then send the forms to the DfEE and its predecessors, sometimes after checking the forms and extracting data. Independent schools, grant maintained schools, and direct grant schools received their forms from the DfEE and its predecessors, to which they returned their completed forms. The following Schools' Census forms were used: Form 7: Different versions were used for LEA-maintained primary, middle and secondary schools, and later city technology colleges. Form 7M: For special schools and hospital schools. Form 7R: For pupil referral units, a type of LEA-maintained school established by the Education Act 1993 to provide temporary education for certain types of pupils who were not able to attend a mainstream school. Form 9/26: Apparently used during the 1970s for direct grant technical schools. Form 11: For LEA-maintained nursery schools and direct grant nursery schools. Form 16: For direct grant grammar schools up to 1980. Form 30: Up to and including the 1978 census for independent schools 'recognised as efficient', i.e. independent schools which had 'sought and obtained recognition as efficient after inspection by Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools'. In 1978 the arrangements for recognition as efficient were brought to an end. From 1979 onwards independent schools which had previously fallen into this category completed Form 101a. Form 101a: For 'other' independent schools up to 1978, and for all independent schools from 1979 onwards. During the 1990s it became increasingly common for schools to generate their returns in digital form. This enabled validation checks to pick up discrepancies in the data. By 2000 about 70 percent of Schools' Census returns were being submitted digitally. Schools could send their digital returns on floppy disk. During the late 1990s data from paper returns was input for the DfEE by a data preparation bureau and transmitted to the DfEE electronically. Data from both the paper and digital forms was entered into a collecting database by the Data Collection Unit using SIR. The data was checked and validated, and datasets produced which were both archived (as ASCII files) and imported into the analysis packages used by Analytical Services' statisticians. As the statisticians also kept the datasets in the analysis formats which they were using, this meant that there were effectively two 'archives' of Schools' Census data in the DfEE: ASCII files exported from the SIR collecting database. Files in QuickTab/QStat format which were 'owned' by the statisticians in Analytical Services Directorate and used by them for analysis. Constraints on the reliability of the data: The metadata transferred with the 1975-1991 datasets has a number of defects. Many of the field descriptions in the data dictionary files transferred with the datasets show signs of having been truncated, often at around 60 or 70 characters. This truncation is thought to have occurred in 1991-1992 when the datasets held by the Department's statisticians were migrated from Fasolt to QuickTab format. However, even where field descriptions have not been affected by truncation, the descriptions do not always provide a complete picture of the functions of fields. It is not unusual for more than one field to have the same description even though the fields contain different data. For the 1975-1991 datasets, the National Digital Archive of Datasets (NDAD) supplemented the original field descriptions by comparing the data with examples of completed Schools' Census forms. Although this work has clarified the functions of a number of fields, some ambiguities remain which will have implications for future use of the data. In addition to the problem of truncated or inadequate field descriptions, some of the datasets for the nursery schools and independent schools also exhibit a problem with certain fields where the data should be a real number (i.e. a decimal), but the decimal place appears to be either missing or in the 'wrong' location. This problem does not affect the datasets for 1986 onwards. Validation performed after transfer: Details of the content and transformation validation checks performed by NDAD on the Schools' Census datasets are contained in the catalogues of individual datasets.
This series consists of statistical data captured by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for every Internal Drainage Board (IDB) in England from annual returns provided by the boards. The data primarily relates to the finances of IDBs and the preparation of water level management plans for Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in IDB districts. The IDB datasets contain the following information for each IDB. Except for the preliminary information on special levies (item 9 below), all of the data relates to IDBs' activities in the previous financial year: 1. The name of the IDB and the name of the relevant National Rivers Authority/Environment Agency region, in cases where the functions of an IDB had been transferred to the NRA or, from 1996 onwards, to the Environment Agency (the NRA's successor). 2. Details of the IDB's drainage district (its area, the extent of the catchment area, the area of rated agricultural land, the number of sub-districts and the number of SSSIs in the district). 3. Technical information about the length of the IDB's drains and culverts, the number of pumping stations, the area of the drainage district which was pump drained, the estimated amount of water pumped in the year, and the mean rainfall in the catchment area. 4. Details of the IDB's personnel: the number of full-time and part-time administrative and manual staff, and the cost of consultancy services. 5. Details of the IDB's income from drainage rates, from special levies on local authorities (data is given for each local authority), contributions from the NRA/Environment Agency, contributions from local authorities, 'rechargeable works' undertaken by the IDB for other bodies and persons, and from other sources. 6. Details of the IDB's expenditure on 'revenue contributions towards capital expenditure' for drainage and establishment purposes, on loan repayments and charges, contributions to the NRA/Environment Agency, the maintenance of watercourses, the operating costs of pumping stations, administrative staff costs, establishment charges, 'rechargeable works' and other current expenses. 7. Details of the IDB's capital expenditure (on new works and improvements, plant, office equipment and other expenditure), and the sources of finance for capital expenditure (government grants, loans, revenue contributions and other sources). 8. Information about drainage rates: the total annual value of agricultural land and buildings subject to drainage rates, the number of rate assessments and the amount of rate levied. 9. Preliminary information on special levies to be issued on local authorities in the current financial year, including the total amount to be levied, the proportion of the IDB's expenses which are to be raised by special levies, and the amount to be levied on each local authority. If an IDB's drainage district was divided into sub-districts in order to levy differential drainage rates or issue differential special levies, the datasets record the following information for each sub-district: 1. The sub-district's name and reference number. 2. The total income from special levies in the sub-district. 3. The total annual value of agricultural land and buildings subject to drainage rates. 4. The number of rate assessments. 5. The rate in the £ levied. 6. Preliminary information on special levies to be issued in the current financial year (the amount of special levy per local authority and the proportion of the sub-district's expenses which are to be raised by special levies). If an IDB district included one or more SSSI, the 1994/95 and 1995/96 datasets include the following data for each SSSI: 1. Its name, total area, area located within the IDB district, and location (expressed as a National Grid Reference). 2. Any additional protective designation affecting the site (e.g. Special Protection Area, Ramsar site, National Nature Reserve, candidate Special Area of Conservation). 3. Whether water levels can be controlled in all or part of the SSSI, and if not, the reasons for this. 4. Information about the status of preparation of a Water Level Management Plan and Interim Management Statement for the site: e.g. the target date for completion of the WLMP if the plan was recorded as 'in preparation' or 'required but no action taken'. The datasets in this series are available to download. Links to individual datasets can be found at piece level. Administrative history: The Internal Drainage Board (IDB) Database was originally created by the Flood Defence Division of the former Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (MAFF). It was continued by the Division's successors, Flood and Coastal Defence Division and Flood and Coastal Defence with Emergencies Division. IDBs have been described as 'virtually autonomous co-operatives of farmers and landowners who have a strong interest in ensuring that drainage work continues'. There were 235 IDBs in England in 1996, most of them in lowland rural areas with special drainage needs (e.g. the Fens of East Anglia). During the period (1994/95-1996/97) covered by the datasets, IDBs' activities were regulated by the Land Drainage Act 1991, as amended by the Land Drainage Act 1994 and the Environment Act 1995. This authorised IDBs to maintain and improve existing drainage works in their districts and to construct new works. Some IDBs also exercised powers under Local Acts of Parliament. Their functions were limited to drainage works on watercourses not designated as 'main rivers' (flood defence on'main rivers&#34 being the responsibility of the Environment Agency's Regional and Local Flood Defence Committees). IDBs could derive their income from drainage rates levied by them on agricultural land and buildings, special levies on local authorities, contributions from the Environment Agency, and grant-in-aid from MAFF towards drainage schemes. Members of IDBs were elected by the payers of drainage rates, and were appointed by local authorities subject to special levies. MAFF's involvement with IDBs stemmed from its overall responsibility for policy relating to flood and coastal defence in England, and from its role in administering the legislation allowing flood and coastal defence works to be carried out. During the period 1994-1997 MAFF's functions included a general oversight of the work of local authorities, IDBs and the Environment Agency in the following areas: planning, maintaining and operating defence measures; the provision of advice and guidance to these authorities; the funding of research into flood and coastal defence; and grant-in-aid for capital projects. Following the creation of the National Assembly for Wales, co-ordination of flood and coastal defence policy in Wales became the responsibility of the Assembly (which exercised powers formerly held by the Welsh Office). In 1999, when the first IDB dataset was transferred, flood and coastal defence functions were discharged within MAFF by Flood and Coastal Defence with Emergencies Division (FCDE). The Land Drainage Act 1991 required that IDBs submit an annual report to MAFF, as part of MAFF's supervisory role, setting out details of their activities in the previous year. During the period of the three datasets held, these reports were sent by the clerks of IDBs to Branch A of FCDE. They contained data relating to the preceding financial year (1 April-31 March), together with preliminary information on special levies which were to be issued in the current financial year. The data on IDBs' finances was used by FCDE to assess applications from IDBs to borrow money and to compare IDBs' previous forecasts of special levies with their actual levies on local authorities. Some of the data was passed to the Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions, where it was used to determine the amounts to be allocated to local authorities to cover special levies from IDBs. The reports from IDBs also gathered information on the preparation of water level management plans (WLMPs) for Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) within IDB districts. Guidance on preparing WLMPs was first issued by MAFF in 1994, with each plan intended to be a written statement of the water level management objectives for a particular area, designed to balance and integrate the water level management requirements of a range of activities (agriculture, flood defence and conservation). MAFF's guidelines required the operating authorities responsible for water level management (IDBs, local authorities and the Environment Agency) to give priority, when preparing WLMPs, to areas designated by conservation agencies as Sites of Special Scientific Interest under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981. Particular priority was given to SSSIs designated as Special Protection Areas under the EC's Birds Directive, Special Areas of Conservation under the EC's Habitats Directive, or Ramsar sites under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance. Data from the IDB returns was used by FCDE's Environmental Adviser to monitor the progress of IDBs in preparing water level management plans for SSSIs. In 1991 FCDE's predecessor, Flood Defence Division, began work on a database to hold data from IDB reports and information on contact persons in IDBs, local authorities and the National Rivers Authority (NRA). The NRA was the forerunner of the Environment Agency, which took over the NRA's responsibilities in 1996. Teething problems meant that the database was not fully operational until 1994/95, and no data prior to the 1994/95 financial year is believed to survive. Earlier problems which had been experienced with the address data in the database meant that the section of the database relating to contact persons was not used by Branch A of FCDE. Instead, Branch A relied on a word-processed list of contact persons and only used the database to store information from IDB returns. It also appears that the information on SSSIs gathered from the returns ceased to be entered into the database after the 1995/96 financial year, and was used instead to update a separate Water Level Management Plans Database. This was set up to allow FCDE's Environmental Advisor to track the preparation of WLMPs by IDBs and by other operating authorities, although only current information was recorded in the database. In 1998 the IDB Database was taken out of service, with the intention that it would be merged with two other databases used by Branch B of FCDE: the 'Schemes' database, relating to grants for flood defence schemes; and the'Environment Agency Medium Term Plans&#34 database, relating to the forecasting of expenditure on flood defence schemes. One of the reasons for the merger was to create a shared area of address information for all three databases. The new database was known as the Flood Defence Database. However, while IDB data was imported into the database, in practice this aspect of the system was not used by Branch A of FCDE (though the data derived from'Schemes&#34 and'Environment Agency Medium Term Plans&#34 continued to be used by Branch B). Problems with the non-return of forms from IDBs also meant that Branch A decided not to input the data from the reports for the 1997/98 and 1998/99 financial years. In order to reduce the burden of form-filling on IDBs, IDB returns were simplified, beginning with those for the 1999/2000 financial year. Branch A (renamed Policy and Administration Branch in 2001) entered the data from the 1999/2000 reports into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. This was effectively the successor to the IDB Database and consisted solely of financial data; data from SSSIs section of the reports continued to be used to update the Water Level Management Plans Database. Arrangement: Hardware: Workstations linked to a ProLiant server manufactured by Compaq. Operating System: SCO UNIX. Application Software: DataEase version 4.2. User interface: The IDB Database was designed to allow users to carry out four types of functions: To view, add and amend details of contact persons and the bodies to which they related (IDBs, local authorities or NRA/Environment Agency regions). To view, add and amend information gathered from the annual reports of IDBs. To run eight 'IDB Users Reports' to summarise certain types of IDB data for a given year. To run two 'Management Reports' to compare two years' worth of IDB data, or to select a procedure from a series of procedures designed to calculate the median, upper and lower quartiles for various analyses of IDB data (e.g. penny rate product per hectare of rated agricultural land). It appears that these functions were accessed through an initial menu presenting the four options (IDB Address List Options, IDB Return Options, IDB Reports and Management Reports). These options each led to a separate sub-menu, which in turn led to screens for entering and viewing data or running reports. Logical structure and schema: The following summarises the forms which were used in the database to hold data from IDB returns and related information: AUTHORITY: The names and reference codes of IDBs, local authorities, and regions and divisions of the National Rivers Authority/Environment Agency. IDBAnnexB: Data from the IDB 1 Annex B paper forms relating to sub-districts within IDB districts (one record per sub-district), except for data held in SubDistAuthfinance. IDBAR: Data from the IDB 1 paper form (the main annual report form), except for data held in IDBAuthFinance and IDBAuthFinanceFuture. IDBAuthFinance: Data from section V1(b) of the IDB 1 form (special levies on local authorities issued in the previous financial year). This form was displayed to users as a sub-form of IDBAR, i.e. as part of one on-screen form, and was not accessed directly by users of the database. IDBAuthFinanceFuture: Data from section IX(b) of the IDB 1 form (preliminary information about special levies to be issued in the current financial year). Also displayed as a sub-form of IDBAR. IDB1AnnexA: Data from the IDB 1 Annex A paper forms relating to SSSIs (one record per SSSI in each IDB district). NRARegion: The names and reference codes of NRA/Environment Agency regions. SSSIDetails: The names and reference codes of SSSIs. SubDistAuthFinance: Data from section IX(b) of the IDB 1 Annex B form (preliminary information about special levies on local authorities in the current financial year for IDB sub-districts). Displayed as a sub-form of IDBAnnexB, i.e. as part of one on-screen form, and therefore not accessed directly by users. The datasets derived from the IDB Database are closed, in the sense that data from the annual reports of IDBs was preserved by MAFF for each financial year and was not overwritten by new data. How data was originally captured and validated: The annual returns of IDBs for the financial years covered by these datasets were submitted to MAFF using three standard paper forms: IDB 1: the main annual report form, containing most of the information which IDBs were required to supply. IDB 1 Annex A: information relating to SSSIs. An IDB 1 Annex A form was returned for each SSSI in an IDB's district (if an IDB contained no SSSIs, no form would be completed). IDB 1 Annex B: information relating to sub-districts. An IDB 1 Annex B form was returned for each sub-district in an IDB's district (if an IDB was not divided into sub-districts, no form would be completed). Except for some changes to the IDB 1 Annex A form, the design of the forms and the questions asked in them remained constant during the period 1994/95-1996/97. Blank forms appear to have been sent out to IDB clerks in May-June; the majority of forms which were returned to Branch A of FCDE appear to have been received between July and September. A manual check of the forms was carried out by Branch A before data entry, with IDBs being contacted to resolve any problems which were detected. Validation performed after transfer: Details of the content and transformation validation checks performed by NDAD staff on the IDB datasets are recorded in the catalogues of individual datasets.
