This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Better Regulation Executive website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Better Regulation Executive (BRE) was created in 2005 to lead the regulatory reform agenda across the UK Government by working to reduce and remove unnecessary regulation for the public, private and voluntary sectors. In July 2007 the BRE moved from the Cabinet Office to become part of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR), and then its successor, the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Better Regulation Commission website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive.]. Administrative history: The Better Regulation Commission (BRC) was established in 2005 in succession to the Better Regulation Task Force, to provide independent advice to government, from business and other external stakeholders, about new regulatory proposals and about the Government's overall regulatory performance. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Claims Management Regulation website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Claims Management Regulation (http://www.claimsregulation.gov.uk/). Claims Management Regulation (http://www.justice.gov.uk/guidance/inspection-and-monitoring/claims-management-regulation/index.htm). Claims management regulation (http://www.justice.gov.uk/claims-regulation). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Pensions Regulator website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Better Regulation Portal website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Detergent Regulations website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of The Pensions Regulator Blog website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Register of Regulated Qualifications website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Better Regulation - Business Link website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Local Better Regulation Office website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive]. Administrative history: The Local Better Regulation Office (LBRO) was set up as a government-owned company in May 2007 to help local authorities improve the way they enforce trading standards, environmental health, licensing and fire safety regulations. It became a non-departmental public body of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR) with statutory powers on 1 October 2008 with commencement of the Regulatory Enforcement and Sanctions Act. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the The Pensions Regulator: Education website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Building Regulations Advisory Committee website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Building Regulations Advisory Committee is an advisory non-departmental public body of the Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG). It was originally established in 1962. Its function is to advise the appropriate Secretary of State on the exercise of their powers to make building regulations and on other subjects connected with building regulations. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office of Rail Regulation website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Office of Rail Regulation (http://www.rail-reg.gov.uk/). Office of Rail Regulation (http://www.orr.gov.uk). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Energy Labelling Regulations (BIS) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office for Nuclear Regulation website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Office for Nuclear Regulation (http://www.hse.gov.uk/nuclear/). Office for Nuclear Regulation (http://www.onr.org.uk/). Administrative history: The Office for Nuclear Regulation (ONR) is responsible for regulation of nuclear safety and security across the UK. Its mission is to provide efficient and effective regulation of the nuclear industry, holding it to account on behalf of the public. The establishment of the ONR followed a 2008 review conducted on behalf of the Government into the regulation of the UK civil nuclear industry, which recommended the creation of a single industry specific regulator. The ONR was then created on 1 April 2011 as the safety regulator for the civil nuclear industry in the UK, as a non-statutory agency of the Health and Safety Executive (HSE). It was formed from the merger of the HSE's Nuclear Directorate (the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate, the Office for Civil Nuclear Security and the UK Safeguards Office) and from 1 June 2011, the Department for Transport's Radioactive Materials Transport Team. Legislation to establish the ONR was included in the Energy Act 2013, and it was formally launched as an independent statutory corporation on 1 April 2014 whose costs are met by charging fees to the nuclear industry. The ONR now reports to the Department for Work and Pensions, although it also works closely with the Department of Energy and Climate Change. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series was created to provide links to past archived versions of websites of central government departments and related bodies dealing with the regulation of market-provided services, including: Department for Trade and Industry; Department for Transport; Strategic Rail Authority; Competition Commission; Low Pay Commission; Small Business Service; Tiger (Tailored Interactive Guidance on Employment Rights). NOTE: Since the end of 2009, archived websites have been incorporated into The National Archives online catalogue under the departmental code of the creating body.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office for Nuclear Regulation: Jobs website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Independent Regulator of NHS Foundation Trusts website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of The Financial Regulators Complaints Commissioner website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the HM Revenue and Customs - Tax Regulations website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Regulator of Community Interest Companies website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office of Rail Regulation - Data Portal website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office for Nuclear Regulation - News website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Guidance for Regulators Information Point (GRIP) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Accessibility Regulations: Making Online Public Services Accessible website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations (COSHH) Essentials website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations (COSHH) Essentials. COSHH Essentials. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Qualifications and Examinations Regulator website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Qualifications and Examinations Regulator (http://www.ofqual.gov.uk/). Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (http://www2.ofqual.gov.uk). Administrative history: The Office of the Qualifications and Examinations Regulator (Ofqual) is the regulator of qualifications, exams and tests in England. It was created in 2007 as a new independent regulator when the responsibility for regulating exams and qualifications was moved from the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the snapshots of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisations presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Monitor Independent Regulator of NHS Foundation Trusts website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Monitor Independent Regulator of NHS Foundation Trusts (http://www.monitor-nhsft.gov.uk/). Monitor (http://nhsft-regulator.gov.uk/). Administrative history: Monitor authorises and regulates NHS foundation trusts making sure they are well-managed and financially strong so that they can deliver excellent healthcare for patients and is the sector regulator for health services in England. It is a non-departmental public body of the Department of Health. The body was established in 2004 under the Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003, which made it responsible for authorising, monitoring and regulating NHS foundation trusts. It was given further responsibilities under the Health and Social Care Act 2012. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Regulators' Development Needs Analysis: Self-assessment Tool website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation: Analytics website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Better Regulation: Department for Children, Schools and Families website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Pesticides Safety Directorate and the Chemical Regulations Directorate website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Technical Advisory Board (for the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act - RIPA) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Technical Advisory Board (www.technicaladvisoryboard.org.uk) Technical Advisory Board (for the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act - RIPA) (http://security.homeoffice.gov.uk/ripa/interception/technical-advisory-board/). Administrative history: The Technical Advisory Board (TAB) is a non-departmental public body that advises the Home Secretary on whether the obligations imposed on communications service providers (CSPs) under the terms of Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) are reasonable. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Consultation on the regulations on advertising activity and trading around London 2012 website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level Note: [London 2012 Olympics]
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) - Starting your own business - Money Laundering Regulations 2007 e-learning course website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner: Register of Regulated Immigration Advisers website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of The Financial Services Register website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Financial Services Register is a public record that shows details of firms, individuals and other bodies that are, or have been, regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and/or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It also has information on firms regulated by the Financial Services Authority that had cancelled or stopped being regulated before April 2013. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Impact Assessment Library (BIS) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Impact Assessment Library (IAL) was created by the Better Regulation Executive to provide easy access into the analysis that Government has undertaken when introducing new regulations. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Health Professions Council website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Health Professions Council (HPC) was established in April 2001 by the Health Professions Order 2001 and is a UK statutory regulator of over 200,000 health professionals from fifteen professions. As a regulator the HPC was set up to protect the public by keeping a register of health professionals who meet the HPC’s standards for their training, professional skills, behaviour and health. In 2010 the HPC regulated the following fifteen health professions: arts therapists, biomedical scientists, chiropodists / podiatrists, clinical scientists, dietitians, hearing aid dispensers, occupational therapists, operating department practitioners, orthoptists, paramedics, physiotherapists, practitioner psychologists, prosthetists / orthotists, radiographers, and speech and language therapists. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Gambling Commission website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Gambling Commission was set up under the Gambling Act 2005 to regulate commercial gambling in Great Britain. The Commission was established on 1 October 2005 to replace the Gaming Board for Great Britain, and the Commission's powers under the Act came into force on 1 September 2007. The Commission exists as an independent Non-Departmental Public Body sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS). It regulates betting, bingo, casinos, gaming machines, lotteries and remote gambling, and also provides independent advice to both central and local government on gambling in Britain. It is not responsible for regulating spread betting or the National Lottery. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Architects Registration Board website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Architects Registration Board is a body set up by Parliament as the independent UK regulator of architects. The Board's duties and responsibilities for regulating architects are set out in the 1997 Architects Act. The Board is now a public corporation whose sponsoring department is the DCLG. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Farriers Registration Council website [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Farriers Registration Council (FRC) was established by the Farriers (Registration) Act 1975 and regulates the profession of farriery in England, Wales and Scotland. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Planning Portal website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Planning Portal is the UK Government's online planning and building regulations resource for England and Wales. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the DCMS: Communications Bill website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Communications Act (2003) gave the Office of Communications (Ofcom) full authority as communications regulator. The snapshots contained here include the Bill in its draft stages. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office of Water Services (later the Water Services Regulation Authority) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive. ]. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Council for Healthcare Regulatory Excellence website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Coundil for Healthcare Regulatory Excellence (CHRE) is a statutory overarching body, covering all of the United Kingdom established from April 2003. CHRE promotes best practice and consistency in the regulation of healthcare professionals. This body was first called the Council for the Regulation of Healthcare Professionals (CRHP). CHRE has now changed its name to the Professional Standards Authority for Health and Social Care under the Health and Social Care Act 2012 section 222. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Legal Services Board website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Legal Services Board (LSB) was created in 2008 by the Legal Services Act of 2007. It became fully active on 1 January 2010 when the new regulatory regime was activated by statute. LSB's roles and responsibilities include: the regulation of approved regulators, oversight of the Office of Legal Complaints, the recommendation of amendments for the list of reserved legal activities, and setting up voluntary arrangements to improve standards (if required). LSB is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Ministry of Justice. The set-up and ongoing costs of it are met entirely by a levy on practitioners within the legal sector, so the body is both politically and financially independent from Government. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Information Tribunal website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Information Tribunal was originally established as the Data Protection Tribunal to hear appeals under the Data Protection Act 1984. Its name was changed to reflect its wider responsibilities under other freedom of information legislation, as it then heard appeals from notices issued by Information Commissioner under the Data Protection Act 1998 and the Freedom of Information Act 2000, and two related Statutory Instruments, the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003 and the Environmental Information Regulations 2004. In 2010 the tribunal became the First–tier Tribunal (Information Rights). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Takeover Panel (mergers and acquisitions regulation) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Panel on Takeovers and Mergers (the 'Takeover Panel') is an independent regulatory body, established in 1968, whose main functions are to issue and administer the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers and to supervise and regulate takeovers and other matters to which the Code applies. Its central objective is to ensure fair treatment for all shareholders in takeover bids. The Panel’s statutory functions are set out in and under Chapter 1 of Part 28 of the Companies Act 2006. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Financial Services Authority website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Financial Services Authority (FSA) was an independent non-governmental body that regulated the financial services industry in the UK. It was given statutory powers by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and established in December 2001. The FSA was a company limited by guarantee and financed by the financial services industry. Its board was appointed by the Treasury. On 19 December 2012, the Financial Services Act 2012 received royal assent, abolishing the FSA with effect from 1 April 2013. The FSA's responsibilities were then split between two new agencies (the Prudential Regulation Authority; and the Financial Conduct Authority) and the Bank of England. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Military Aviation Authority website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Military Aviation Authority (MAA) was created on 1 April 2010 as the organisation within the Ministry of Defence responsible for the regulation, surveillance, inspection and assurance of the Defence Air operating and technical domains. It ensures the safe design and use of military air systems. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Information Rights - Tribunals website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Information Rights Tribunal hears appeals from notices issued by the Information Commissioner regarding breaches of the law on Freedom of Information, Data Protection, and the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003. Up until 17 January 2010 the Information Rights Tribunal was called the Information Tribunal. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Security Industry Authority website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Security Industry Authority is an executive non-departmental public body established in 2003 under the Private Security Industry Act 2001. It is responsible for regulating private security industry in the UK. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the SIA - Security Industry Authority website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive]. Administrative history: The Security Industry Authority (SIA) is responsible for regulating the private security industry. The SIA is an independent body reporting to the Home Secretary, under the terms of the Private Security Industry Act 2001. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the National Debtline (https://www.nationaldebtline.org/) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: National Debtline is a free, independent and confidential debt advice service run by the charity Money Advice Trust and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme Website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Financial Services Compensation Scheme (http://www.fscs.org.uk/). Financial Services Compensation Scheme (https://www.fscs.org.uk/). Administrative history: The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is the UK’s statutory compensation scheme for customers of authorised financial services firms. It was set up under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and became operational on 1 December 2001. The FSCS is independent of the UK Government and the financial industry. It is funded by a levy on 'authorised financial services firms'. The scheme covers deposits, insurance policies, insurance brokering, investments, mortgages and mortgage arrangement. The FSCS covers business conducted by firms authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), the independent watchdogs set up by government to regulate financial services in the UK and protect the rights of consumers. European firms (authorised by their home state regulator) that operate in the UK may also be covered. The FSCS can pay compensation if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it. The FSCS does not charge individual consumers for using its service. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Legal Services Consultative Panel website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Legal Services Consultative Panel was established in 2000 under the Access to Justice Act 1999. It is an advisory non-departmental public body of the Ministry of Justice. The Panel assists in the maintenance and development of standards in the education, training and conduct of persons offering legal services and advises the Minister of Justice on the regulation of the legal sector. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Judicial Conduct Investigations Office website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Judicial Conduct and Investigations Office (JCIO) took over the responsibilities of the Office for Judicial Complaints (OJC) on 1 October 2013. The JCIO supports the Lord Chancellor and the Lord Chief Justice in their joint responsibility for judicial discipline. It seeks to ensure that all judicial disciplinary issues are dealt with consistently, fairly and efficiently. The JCIO operates in accordance with the Judicial Discipline (Prescribed Procedures) Regulations 2013 and the supporting rules. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Interception of Communications Commissioner's Office (IOCCO) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Interception of Communications Commissioner is appointed under Section 57(1) of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) 2000. The Commissioner's function is to keep under review the interception of communications and the acquisition and disclosure of communications data by intelligence agencies, police forces and other public authorities. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Investigatory Powers Tribunal website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Investigatory Powers Tribunal is an advisory non-departmental public body established under Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (RIPA). Its functions are to consider all complaints against the intelligence services and those against public authorities in respect of powers covered by RIPA, and to consider proceedings brought under the Human Rights Act 1998 against the intelligence services and law enforcement agencies in respect of those powers. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Engineering Construction Industry Training Board (ECITB) Awarding Body website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Engineering Construction Industry Training Board (ECITB) was created by Act of Parliament in July 1991 and is regulated under the Industry Training Act 1982 and is the National Training Organisation for the engineering construction industry and the centre of excellence for advice, information and skills development for the industry. The Board is an executive non-departmental public body, since 2007 of the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills (DIUS). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Examinations Appeals Board website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive]. Administrative history: The Examinations Appeals Board (the EAB) was set up by Ministers in 1999 as an independent body, to help give confidence to candidates, parents, schools and colleges who make use of the examinations system that the grades awarded are fair and accurate. The EAB is responsible to the Office of the Qualifications and Examinations Regulator (Ofqual). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Intelligence Services Commissioner (ISC) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Intelligence Services Commissioner (ISC) works with the Home Office to provide independent judicial oversight of the conduct of the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6), Security Service (MI5), Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) and a number of other public authorities. The Commissioner, is a regulatory official appointed under Section 59 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 as amended by the Justice and Security Act 2013. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber) aims to assist those wishing to appeal against, or involved in decisions of the First–tier Tribunal in Tax or Charity cases and people wishing to refer matters relating to certain decisions of the Financial Services Authority and the Pensions Regulator. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Consumer Credit Appeals Tribunal website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Consumer Credit Appeals Tribunal hears appeals against decisions of the Office of Fair Trading relating to consumer credit licences, including the imposition of requirements or a civil penalties on licensees and the refusal to register, cancellation of registration, or imposition of a penalty under the Money Laundering Regulations 2007. In 2009, the Tribunal became the First-tier Tribunal (Consumer Credit) which forms part of the General Regulatory Chamber of the First-tier Tribunal. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office of the Legal Services Complaints Commissioner website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive]. Administrative history: The Office of the Legal Services Complaints Commissioner works with consumers to improve how the Law Society handles complaints about solicitors in England and Wales. The Commissioner is an independent government-appointed regulator; the Commissioner’s powers, are set out in the Access to Justice Act 1999. The first Commissioner was appointed in February 2004. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Housing Corporation website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Housing Corporation was the non-departmental public body that funded new affordable housing and regulated housing associations in England. It was established by the Housing Act 1964. On 1 December 2008, its functions were transferred to two new organisations, the Homes and Communities Agency and the Tenant Services Authority. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Equitable Life Payment Scheme website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Equitable Life Payment Scheme was been set up by HM Government to make fair and transparent payments to Equitable Life policyholders who had suffered financial losses as a result of Government maladministration that was found to have occurred in the regulation of Equitable Life. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Professional Standards Authority website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Professional Standards Authority for Health and Social Care oversees statutory bodies that regulate health and social care professionals in the UK. The Authority assesses their performance, conducts audits, scrutinises their decisions and reports to Parliament. The Authority also sets standards for organisations holding voluntary registers for health and social care occupations and accredit those that meet them. The Authority was previously known as the Council for Healthcare Regulatory Excellence (CHRE). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
Calendar of prisoners at Winchester for trial at a Special Commission of Assize following the agricultural riots, 1830, with a report on the trial (see also HO 40 ); a list of jury with instructions for the challenges in the case Rex v. O'Coighly, 1798 (cf. KB 8/84 ); and prison statistics and regulations, 1824 to 1826. PLEASE NOTE: Electronic images of selected pieces of these records can be searched online through our partner website. Pieces 1 and 2 only have been digitised at this time (June 2015); further releases within this series to follow.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Legal Services Board Research website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: Legal Services Board Research was created as an arm of the Legal Services Board (LSB). It communicates market intelligence, publishes commissioned research reports, generates survey data following research activity, and manages tenders for research. Commissioned research, data sets, literature reviews and analysis are posted on the Legal Services Board Research website. LSB was created in 2008 by the Legal Services Act of 2007. It became fully active on 1 January 2010 when the new regulatory regime was activated by statute. LSB's roles and responsibilities include: the regulation of approved regulators, oversight of the Office of Legal Complaints, the recommendation of amendments for the list of reserved legal activities, and setting up voluntary arrangements to improve standards (if required). LSB is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Ministry of Justice. The set-up and ongoing costs of it are met entirely by a levy on practitioners within the legal sector, so the body is both politically and financially independent from Government. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the General Social Care Council (GSCC) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: General Social Care Council (England). General Social Care Council (GSCC). Administrative history: The General Social Care Council (GSCC) is responsible for setting standards of conduct and practice for social care workers and their employers, for regulating the workforce, and for regulating social work education and training. The GSCC is a non-departmental public body established in October 2001 under the Care Standards Act 2000. It is sponsored by the Department of Health but works also closely with the Department for Children, Schools and Families in delivering the children's and young people's care agenda. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Office of Surveillance Commissioners website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Office of Surveillance Commissioners (http://www.surveillancecommissioners.gov.uk/). Office of Surveillance Commissioners (http://surveillancecommissioners.independent.gov.uk/). Office of Surveillance Commissioners (https://osc.independent.gov.uk/). Administrative history: The Office of Surveillance Commissioners (OSC) was established to provide effective and efficient oversight of the conduct of covert surveillance and covert human intelligence sources by public authorities. The OSC operates in accordance with Part III of the Police Act 1997, Parts II and III of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 ('RIPA'), and the Regulation of Investigatory Powers (Scotland) Act 2000 ('RIP(S)A'). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Tenant Services Authority website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Tenant Services Authority. TSA Archive. Administrative history: The Tenant Services Authority (TSA) were responsible for regulating affordable housing. Launched on 1 December 2008, the TSA assumed the regulatory powers of the Housing Corporation. TSA was funded by the Department of Communities and Local Government. On 1 April 2012 the Homes and Communities Agency (HCA) took over from the Tenant Services Authority the responsibility for the regulation of social housing providers in England. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Legal Services Consumer Panel website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Legal Services Consumer Panel was following the Legal Services Act 2007 and began work on 1 November 2009. The Panel is an independent arm of the Legal Services Board (LSB) and is made up of eight lay members whose appointments are approved by the Lord Chancellor. It is led by a Chairman who is appointed for a fixed period of time and on other conditions approved by the Board. The panel aims to provide high quality, evidenced-based advice to the LSB, in order to help them make decisions that are shaped around the needs of consumers. LSB was created in 2008 by the Legal Services Act of 2007. It became fully active on 1 January 2010 when the new regulatory regime was activated by statute. LSB's roles and responsibilities include: the regulation of approved regulators, oversight of the Office of Legal Complaints, the recommendation of amendments for the list of reserved legal activities, and setting up voluntary arrangements to improve standards (if required). LSB is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Ministry of Justice. The set-up and ongoing costs of it are met entirely by a levy on practitioners within the legal sector, so the body is both politically and financially independent from Government. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Appointments Commission website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Appointments Commission was established in 2001, and is based in Leeds. The Commission is the independent organisation responsible, on behalf of the Secretary of State, for appointing chairs and non-executive directors to the following NHS organisations: Strategic Health Authorities; Primary Care Trusts; Ambulance Trusts; Mental Health Trusts; Hospital Trusts; and Department of Health Arms Length Bodies. It also recruits members to Department of Health Advisory Bodies and provides non-executive recruitment services for Foundation Trusts and to the boards of public bodies across central Government. The majority of appointments made are regulated by the Commissioner for Public Appointments and the Commission is governed by a board of directors which is directly accountable to the Department of Health. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of The Chadwick Office website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: In January 2009, the retired judge Sir John Chadwick was appointed by HM Treasury as an independent adviser to the Government in relation to its proposal to establish a fair ex-gratia payment scheme in response to the Report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman on her investigation into the prudential regulation of Equitable Life. In August 2009 Sir John Chadwick issued an interim report. On 16 July 2010 he issued his Advice to Government, and on 22 July 2010 the Government published that Advice and the material appended to it. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Scottish Consumer Council website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Scottish Consumer Council (SCC) was formed in July 1975 by the Secretary of State for Prices and Consumer Protection as an independent policy organisation to represent consumer interests to policy-makers, regulators, service providers and suppliers. The SCC was affiliated to the National Consumer Council (NCC) and the Welsh Consumer Council (WCC). On 1 October 2008 the Welsh, Scottish and National Consumer Councils merged with Postwatch and energywatch to form Consumer Focus, the new champion for consumers' interests in England, Scotland, Wales and, for post, Northern Ireland. The snapshots for this website in this series were taken after the Scottish Consumer Council was reorganised in 2008. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Advertising Standards Authority website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) is the UK's independent regulator of advertising industry in the UK across all media, including TV, internet, sales promotions and direct marketing. The ASA was established in 1962 to adjudicate on complaints that advertisements had breached the new British Code of Advertising Practice Code (the CAP Code). Its role is to ensure advertisements are legal, decent, honest and truthful by applying the Advertising Codes. The ASA receives no Government funding and is wholly funded by advertisers through a levy on advertising spend. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Sentence Review Commissioners in Northern Ireland website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive]. Administrative history: The Sentence Review Commissioners in Northern Ireland was appointed to oversee and regulate the early release of certain prisoners convicted during the period of civil unrest. It was established under the terms of the United Kingdom Northern Ireland (Sentences) Act, which came into force in July 1998 in the wake of The Agreement, (also known as the Good Friday Agreement, the Belfast Agreement and the Peace Agreement) signed in Belfast 10 April 1998. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the National Laboratory Service website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The National Laborartory Service (NLS) is the scientific nerve centre of the UK’s environmental regulator the Environment Agency. Its laboratories provide analytical solutions to problems of air, water and soil pollution, applying the very latest chemical and molecular techniques. The NLS was originally part of the National Rivers Authority and became a single entity in 1993. Today the NLS operates as a business unit of the Environment Agency and is based at three laboratories located in Exeter, Nottingham and Leeds, with each one specialising in specific areas of environmental testing and analysis. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Wood Review website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: On 10 June 2013, Edward Davey, the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, announced an independently-led review of UK offshore oil and gas recovery and its regulation, led by Sir Ian Wood, which aimed to conduct a review into maximising the economic recovery of oil and gas from the UK Continental Shelf. Following the publication of an interim report on 11 November 2013, Sir Ian published his report on 24 February 2014. In July 2014, the Government published its response to the Wood Review. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Charities Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Charities' Statement of Registered Practice (SORP) gives a framework for accounting and reporting, designed to: help charity trustees meet their legal requirement for their accounts to give a true and fair view; encourage consistency in charity accounting standards; and give recommendations for charity annual reporting. The Charity Commission for England and Wales (CCEW) and the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator (OSCR) are authorised by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) to take the responsibility for organising the Charities SORP review, drafting any revisions and undertaking the consultation process. In making recommendations, the CCEW and OSCR are expected to act on the recommendations of an expert committee: the SORP Committee, which first met on 11 December 2014. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Humane Technology - WRULD Database website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The WRULD Database provides information on over 200 Court Judgments in personal injury claims in which the alleged injury was some type of work-related upper limb disorder (ie WRULD), popularly referred to as repetitive strain injuries (RSI). The site was initially developed as part of a research project funded by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE), which examined how the Courts are interpreting HSE guidance documents and certain Regulations. Further funding has been provided by the HSE to keep the website regularly updated and to improve the quality and quantity of information provided. This site is operated and maintained on behalf of HSE by Humane Technology Ltd. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Nanotechnology Strategy Forum website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Nanotechnology Strategy Forum (NSF) was established to facilitate discussion and engagement between Government and key stakeholders on strategic issues for the responsible advancement of the UK's nanotechnologies industries. The NSF is an ad hoc expert advisory body with a membership drawn from industry, regulators, academia and NGOs (non-governmental organisations) to reflect a wide range of stakeholder perspectives. The NSF is jointly chaired by the Minister of State for Universities and Science (BIS) and the Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Defra and is supported by a small secretariat based in Defra. The Forum first met in May 2012. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Plain Packaging Review website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: On 28 November 2013, Jane Ellison, the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health, announced an independent review into the public health evidence on standardised tobacco packaging. On the same day she confirmed that the Government would take the opportunity to table an amendment to the Children and Families Bill to establish regulation making powers in this area. The review was led by Sir Cyril Chantler, Chairman of University College London Partners and non-executive Chairman of the Quality and Clinical Risk Committee of NHS England; also a Fellow of Kings College London and a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences. On 3 April 2014, the report of the public health review was published. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Community Interest Companies website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: Community interest companies (CIC) are a type of limited company designed specifically for those wishing to operate for the benefit of the community rather than for the benefit of the owners of the company. The Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004 established the CIC Regulator as an independent public office holder appointed by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, to encourage the development of the CIC brand and provide guidance and assistance on matters relating to CICs. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Planning Portal Director website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Planning Portal was launched in 2002 to allow planning applications in England and Wales to be processed electronically and it received its first electronic planning application in April 2003. The Portal later added information content for Building Regulations (though not their submission) and the ability to purchase site location plans. In February 2012 the one millionth application was submitted through the Planning Portal and by November 2012 over 60% of all planning applications submitted in England and Wales were done so. In March 2015 the business was privatised and on 11 March 2015, the Planning Portal transferred ownership from the Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG) to a joint venture between DCLG and private company TerraQuest. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive. ]. Administrative history: The Rail Accident Investigation Branch (RAIB) is the independent railway accident investigation organisation for the UK. The RAIB is independent of the railway industry, safety regulators and prosecution bodies. The RAIB forms part of the Department for Transport, but is functionally independent; the Chief Inspector reports on accident investigations directly to the Secretary of State. The RAIB receives annual funding to meet the costs of its investigation work in the form of a grant-in-aid from Parliament, through the Department for Transport. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Marine and Fisheries Agency website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The Marine and Fisheries Agency (MFA) was an executive agency of the UK Government, responsible to Defra, which controlled sea fishing in seas around England and Wales. It was established on 1 October 2005, as the Marine Fisheries Agency, to co-ordinate for the first time the service delivery, inspection and enforcement of activities provided by the Government to the fishing industry and other marine stakeholders in England and Wales. The Agency incorporated the inspection and enforcement work previously undertaken by Defra's Sea Fisheries Inspectorate, and was responsible for fishing vessel licensing, quota management and grant schemes, as well as marketing and trade matters. It was renamed as the Marine and Fisheries Agency in 2007. The MFA undertook marine consents and licensing work; advised ports and offshore oil companies and the Maritime and Coastguard Agency on fisheries and marine environmental matters in the context of preparedness and response to maritime oil and chemical spills; approved oil treatment products for use on maritime oil spills and their specific use in shallow and coastal waters; issued dredging permissions for marine minerals extraction; and monitored and controlled the offshore marine regulations for implementing the EU Habitats and Wildbirds Directive. In England and Wales, the Agency had overall responsibility for the enforcement of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) and its associated regulations. The Marine and Fisheries Agency was replaced by the Marine Management Organisation on 1 April 2010. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information. Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information (www.nationalarchives.gov.uk). Administrative history: The Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information (APPSI) was established in April 2003. APPSI's terms of reference apply to England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. APPSI's role is: To advise Ministers on how to encourage and create opportunities in the information industry for greater re-use of public sector information; To advise the Director of the Office of Public Sector Information and Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office about changes and opportunities in the information industry, so that the licensing of Crown copyright and public sector information is aligned with current and emerging developments; To review and consider complaints under the Re-use of Public Sector Information Regulations 2005 and advise on the impact of the complaints procedures under those regulations. APPSI is an advisory non-departmental public body of the Ministry of Justice. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Legal Services Review website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: On 24 July 2003, the Constitutional Affairs Secretary, Lord Falconer, launched a wide-ranging independent review of the regulation of the legal services market aimed at promoting competition and innovation and improving services for the customer. The review was led by Prudential plc chairman and former Deputy Governor of the Bank of England, Mr David Clementi. His role was to examine the independent legal sector and the regulatory system. The Terms of Reference of the Review were: To consider what regulatory framework would best promote competition, innovation and the public and consumer interest in an efficient, effective and independent legal sector. To recommend a framework which will be independent in representing the public and consumer interest, comprehensive, accountable, consistent, flexible, transparent, and no more restrictive or burdensome than is clearly justified. The Report on Regulatory Review of Legal Services was published on 15 December 2004. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains links to gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Care Quality Commission website (http://www.cqc.org.uk/). [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. PLEASE NOTE: The first two snapshots in this series relate to a different site as the url http://www.cqc.org.uk/ was previously used for a website named Countryside Quality Counts from July to August 2008 but after that date was used for the website of the Care Quality Commission, so the first snapshot in this series for the Care Quality Commission website is October 2008. (The Countryside Quality Counts website series is: MAF 486 ). Administrative history: The Care Quality Commission was formed on 31 March 2009 by the merger of the Healthcare Commission, the Commission for Social Care Inspection, and the Mental Health Act Commission. Its function is to regulate and improve the quality of health and social care in England, and to look after the interests of people detained under the Mental Health Act. It is an advisory non-departmental public body of the Department of Health. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Nursing and Midwifery Council website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Nursing and Midwifery Council (http://www.nmc-uk.org/). Nursing and Midwifery Council (http://www.nmc.org.uk/). Nursing and Midwifery Council (https://www.nmc.org.uk/). Administrative history: The Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) was established in April 2002, when the United Kingdom Central Council for Nursing, Midwifery and Health Visiting (UKCC) ceased to exist and its functions were taken over by the new NMC which also took on board the quality assurance function of the English National Board for Nursing, Midwifery and Health Visiting, which was also abolished. The NMC is the nursing and midwifery regulator for the UK; its core function is to establish standards of education, training, conduct and performance for nursing and midwifery and to ensure those standards are maintained, thereby safeguarding the health and wellbeing of the public. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains the surviving plea rolls of the Exchequer of the Jews from 1219 until 1286, four years before the Jews were expelled from England. All but five of these rolls date from the years between 1266 and 1286. Each is divided into several sections. Besides pleas, some rolls include essoins, appointments of attorneys, adjournments of litigation at the request of both parties, starrs (loan bonds), administrative memoranda, memoranda relating to Jewish tallages, and recognizances. Publication details are indicated against each relevant piece. Digital images of some of the records in this series are available through the Anglo-American Legal Tradition website. Please note that The National Archives is not responsible for this website or its content. Administrative history: The Justices of the Jews exercised jurisdiction, civil and criminal, in all affairs between Jews or the Jewish Community on the one hand and the Crown or Christians on the other. The pleas recorded in these rolls frequently relate to the contents of the archae or chests kept in certain specified towns in which were deposited the chirographs or counterparts of deeds recording loans made by Jews and Christians. The rolls also contain memoranda of proceedings with regard to the custody of these archae and to regulations respecting the Jews.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Air Safety Support International website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Air Safety Support International (http://www.airsafety.aero/). Air Safety Support International (http://www.airsafety.aero/Home.aspx). Administrative history: Air Safety Support International is a not-for-profit, wholly-owned, subsidiary company of the Civil Aviation Authority, established under Directions from the Department for Transport. The company's primary objective is to help provide a more cohesive system of civil aviation safety regulation in the UK Overseas Territories. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the National College for Teaching and Leadership - Data Provision website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: The National College for Teaching and Leadership (NCTL) is responsible for administering the training of new and existing teachers in England, as well as the regulation of the teaching profession and offers headteachers, school leaders and senior children's services leaders opportunities for professional development. It was established on 1 April 2013, when the Teaching Agency merged with the National College for School Leadership. The NCTL is an executive agency of the Department for Education. It was originally established in 2000 as the National College for School Leadership before changing its name in September 2009 to the National College for Leadership of Schools and Children's Services. It reverted to National College for School Leadership on 1 June 2011. It had originally been established as a non-departmental public body, but became an executive agency of the Department for Education on 1 April 2012. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Department for Education - Get into Teaching - Teaching Agency website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Department for Education - Get into Teaching - Teaching Agency. Department for Education - Get into teaching. Administrative history: The Teaching Agency is responsible for initial teacher training in England, as well as the regulation of the teaching profession. It was established as an executive agency of the Department for Education on 1 April 2012, replacing the Training and Development Agency for Schools and parts of the General Teaching Council for England. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the NetRegs website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: NetRegs - Environmental Guidance for your Business. NetRegs. Administrative history: NetRegs is a free website that provides clear guidance to businesses in the UK on how to comply with environmental legislation. NetRegs is a partnership between the UK environmental regulators – the Environment Agency in England and Wales, the Scottish Environment Agency (SEPA) in Scotland, and the Northern Ireland Environment Agency (NIEA) in Northern Ireland. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Financial Conduct Authority website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Financial Conduct Authority (http://www.fca.org.uk/). Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (https://www.the-fca.org.uk/). Financial Conduct Authority (https://www.fca.org.uk/). Administrative history: The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulates the financial services industry in the UK. Its aim is to protect consumers, ensure the industry remains stable and promote healthy competition between financial services providers. The FCA was formed as one of the successors to the Financial Services Authority (FSA) following the Financial Services Act 2012 which received royal assent on 19 December 2012 and came into force on 1 April 2013. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Skills Funding Agency website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Skills Funding Agency (http://skillsfundingagency.bis.gov.uk/) Skills Funding Agency (www.skillsfundingagency.bis.gov.uk). Administrative history: The Skills Funding Agency came into existence on 1 April 2010 to fund and regulate adult further education and skills training in England. The Agency was established by the Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009, and is one of two successor organisations that emerged from the closure of the Learning and Skills Council (the other being the Young People's Learning Agency). The Agency is an agency of the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains the register of the Privy Council, comprising the minutes of its proceedings, its orders, certain proclamations and the reports of committees with the papers accompanying them, sometimes entered at length, sometimes in abstract only. Pieces 1-873 are fully indexed. There are several gaps in the series of registers, the chief being that between 1 January 1602 and 1 May 1613. From the late sixteenth century the registers generally contain lists of privy councillors and, occasionally, lists of committees and committee members, transcripts of official oaths, etc. From the mid 1890s, maps and plans frequently appear in the registers. They relate mainly to local authority areas and ward boundaries arising from the issue of orders in council in connection with the grant of charters, etc. Other maps relate to the boundaries of ecclesiastical parishes, chapelries, benefices and the extent of military manoeuvres. Also included are a number of volumes containing copies of revised king's regulations and Admiralty instructions, issued under orders in council. Digital images of some of the records in this series are available through the Anglo-American Legal Tradition website. Please note that The National Archives is not responsible for this website or its content. Arrangement: The registers are arranged by sovereign, in date order.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Immigration Services Commissioner website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Immigration Services Commissioner. Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner (http://oisc.homeoffice.gov.uk/). Administrative history: The Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner (OISC) is an independent, non-departmental public body set up in 2001 under the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 to regulate those providing immigration advice and services, to promote good practice, and to investigate complaints and prosecute. The OISC is directly accountable to the Home Secretary; its sponsor unit is within the UK Border Agency Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Financial Reporting Council website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Financial Reporting Council (http://www.frc.org.uk/index.cfm) Financial Reporting Council (https://www.frc.org.uk/). Administrative history: The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) was established in 1990 as the UK's independent regulator responsible for promoting confidence in corporate reporting and guidance.; these snapshots start from the period when it was the responsibility of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Morecambe Bay Investigation - GOV.UK website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive ]. Administrative history: On 12 September 2013 the Secretary of State for Health announced an independent investigation into Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust Maternity and Neonatal Services, to be chaired by Dr Bill Kirkup CBE. Between January 2004 and June 2013 there were a series of deaths of mothers and newborn babies in the maternity and neonatal services unit at Furness General Hospital in Barrow-in-Furness. Several reviews took place during this period but these had not given those affected confidence that all of the facts had been heard and all of the underlying issues had been resolved. The Morecambe Bay Investigation would focus on the actions, systems and processes of the Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust and also investigate the actions of regulators and commissioners where those actions affected the safety of maternity and neonatal services provided by the Trust. The investigation would report to the Secretary of State for Health by summer 2014. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Human Tissue Authority (HTA) website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Human Tissue Authority (HTA) (http://www.hta.gov.uk/). Human Tissue Authority (HTA) (https://www.hta.gov.uk/). Administrative history: The Human Tissue Authority (HTA) is an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health and are overseen by an Authority of lay and professional members appointed by the Government. The HTA regulates the removal, storage, use and disposal of human bodies, organs and tissue for a number of scheduled purposes such as research, transplantation, and education and training. The HTA was created by the Human Tissue Act 2004; it came into being on 1 April 2005 and its statutory functions began on 1 April 2006. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
Books which record rules (i.e. orders) made by the Court of King's Bench either to regulate its practice, or in particular cases upon a motion by counsel for the parties. They are chronological, so providing a day to day record of the court's business and, incidentally, a list of the days on which it sat. The books contain, in addition to memoranda, various categories of rules. The staple entries are of rules granted to enable a case to proceed to the next step, but rules for the issue of writs of certiorari to bring in cases from inferior courts, rules to the marshal of King's Bench to produce or detain prisoners, and rules granting licences to imparl also occur quite frequently. The series is almost complete from 1589 to 1875, the only major gap being between 1652 and 1660. The last three volumes are collections of important general rules compiled retrospectively for reference, and are not part of the main series. Digital images of some of the records in this series are available through the Anglo-American Legal Tradition website. Please note that The National Archives is not responsible for this website or its content. Administrative history: By the early eighteenth century at least the rule books were kept by an officer called the clerk of the rules in the Crown Office of King's Bench, who received a fee in respect of each entry he made.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Drinking Water Inspectorate website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Drinking Water Inspectorate. Drinking Water Inspectorate. Administrative history: The Drinking Water Inspectorate is responsible for regulating the public water supply companies in England and Wales. It was set up in 1990 after the water industry was privatised to operate an independent body with staff experienced in all aspects of water supply. Its parent body is the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
Miscellaneous papers of the Privy Council and Privy Council Office. There is little material from before the 1680s. The subjects dealt with include: Admiralty matters, Admiralty Courts, jurisdiction and prize appeals; the death, funeral and will of Queen Anne; burial boards; the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man; charters to boroughs, companies, universities, etc; colonies; commissions; coronations; corresponding societies; ecclesiastical matters; Irish parliamentary bills, military and naval stores, museums; polling places, prisoners and convicts; public health and quarantine; returns of Roman Catholics taking oaths; schools; sheriffs; trade, embargo and neutral property; and universities. The series also contains some separate sub-series of papers of other bodies or persons. Prior to 1800 there are separate sub-series for colonial and non-colonial papers. The colonial papers especially pertain to the Americas and West Indies and the non-colonial papers to the Revolutionary France. While many of the records are unbound papers there are also books, papers bound into volumes, files, rolls, printed material and pro forma. There are also many document types, including appeals; petitions; memorials; general correspondence, letter books and memoranda; despatches; registers; commissions; minutes; reports; orders, including orders in council; acts and bills; ordinances; proclamations; licences; instructions and regulations; lists; returns; precedents, legal opinions and other types of legal document; and maps. Digital images of some of the records in this series are available through the Anglo-American Legal Tradition website. Please note that The National Archives is not responsible for this website or its content. Arrangement: Over the years the series had been subject to much re-arrangement and re-cataloguing. It contains several discrete collections of records, and several different arrangements, and subsequently, different document ordering formats. Sections of the series have a catalogue in French only.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the National Lottery Commission website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: National Lottery Commission (http://www.natlotcomm.gov.uk/). National Lottery Commission (http://www.nationallotterycommission.gov.uk/). National Lottery Commission (http://www.natlotcomm.gov.uk/CLIENT/index.asp). National Lottery Commission (http://www.natlotcomm.gov.uk/home.aspx). Administrative history: The National Lottery Commission was established in April 1999 under the National Lottery Act 1998, to replace the Office of the National Lottery (OFLOT). The Commission grants and enforces licences to run the National Lottery. It aims to ensure that the Lottery is run and promoted with all due propriety; that players' interests are protected; and that, subject to these, the most money is raised for good causes. The National Lottery Commission is an Executive Non-Departmental Public Body, sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) and its work is funded by the National Lottery Distribution Fund (NLDF). On 1 October 2013 the National Lottery Commission, which regulates the National Lottery, became part of the Gambling Commission. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level This series contains more than one link to the 'snapshots' of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation's presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
This series contains dated gathered versions (or 'snapshots') of the Commissioner for Public Appointments and the Office of the Commissioner for Public Appointments website. [Please note: These records may be accessed via the UK Government Web Archive using the links listed below (for a general explanation of these parallel links, please see the Arrangement field)]: Commissioner for Public Appointments. Office of the Commissioner for Public Appointments. Public Appointments Commissioner. Administrative history: The office of Commissioner for Public Appointments, a position independent of the government, was created on 23 November 1995 in response to the recommendations of the Nolan Committee which, in 1995, made a series of recommendations intended to increase public confidence in the way in which public appointments were made. The principle recommendation was that an independent Commissioner should be appointed. The Commissioner was to establish a Code of Practice for ministerial appointments to public bodies, and monitor the process to ensure those appointments are made on merit, after fair and open competition. The Commissioner's role is to regulate, monitor, report and advise on appointments made by UK Ministers and by members of the Welsh Assembly Government to the boards of national and regional public bodies. Scotland and Northern Ireland each have their own Commissioners who, although sharing similar procedures and objectives (some bodies within Northern Ireland also fall under the UK Commissioner's remit), are separate from the post of Commissioner for Public Appointments in England and Wales. Government departments are required to follow the Commissioner's Principles and detailed Code of Practice when making public appointments. The Commissioner is also responsible for investigating complaints. The Office of the Commissioner for Public Appointments (OCPA) supports the work of the Commissioner for Public Appointments. Arrangement: Please see information at Divisional level. This series contains more than one link to the ‘snapshots’ of this website. For some websites, the URL may change periodically. Despite this change to the URL these websites are part of the same record series as they represent the department or organisation’s presence on the web at the time. Occasionally, more than one domain URL to the same website may run in parallel creating an overlap.
The Millennium Commission Grants database PROFESA provides details of grants awarded to all the organisations supported through the Millennium Awards Scheme, which allowed individual people to benefit directly from a National Lottery grant; the Millennium Projects scheme; and the Millennium Festivals scheme. PROFESA contains basic information about all the awards, projects and festivals supported by the Millennium Commission, including applicant, project outline, cost, and progress. The contents of the database were made available online. Users were able to make searches through the Millennium Commission website (http://www.millennium.gov.uk) and view summary details of projects, including images. These queries were sourced directly from the PROFESA database and its image library. The content covers three main areas: Awards, Projects, and Festivals. The Millennium Awards Scheme distributed small Lottery grants called Millennium Awards. Since 1996, these were awarded to individual people for projects which benefited themselves and their community. Millennium Projects were the most visible part of the Commission's work, including large-scale buildings and environmental schemes accounting for over £1.3 billion of National Lottery money. The Millennium Commission only had enough funds to support a tenth of the applications it received. The Commission's contribution represented up to 50% of the cost of each project and the balance had to be raised by the projects. At the time of completion, there were over 215 Millennium Projects on around 3,000 sites throughout the United Kingdom. Millennium Festivals 1999-2001: The Millennium Commission wanted to help communities celebrate the new millennium. Working with other Lottery distributors it created a Millennium Festival fund of over £100 million. The year 2000 saw over 2,000 Millennium Commission funded festivals taking place. An impact study on the Millennium Festival carried out in 2001 highlighted the positive impact of the Millennium Festival in the United Kingdom. The datasets in this series are available to download. Links to individual datasets can be found at piece level. Administrative history: The Grants database was owned and transferred by the Millennium Commission. The Commission was established in 1993 by the National Lottery Act. It convened for the first time in February 1994 and was one of the bodies that distributed proceeds from the National Lottery. Unlike the other distributing bodies, the Commission was created as a temporary organisation, with a specific short-term objective aimed at funding projects to celebrate the end of the second millennium and the start of the third. The Commission was created and regulated by the Government, but classed as an independent body. The Millennium Commissioners were individuals entrusted with the core decision-making powers subject to the ongoing advice offered by the Commission staff. Commission staff assisted projects throughout the grant-giving process by monitoring progress and offering guidance. Commissioners were in turn updated about the ongoing achievements of individual projects. In August 2001, the National Lottery ceased to distribute income to the Millennium Commission under the terms of an Order approved by both Houses of Parliament in December 2000. Up until its dissolution on 30 November 2006, the Millennium Commission continued to distribute grants and complete projects in addition to fulfilling its role of protecting the legacy of the millennium celebrations. The Millennium Commission allocated over £1.3 billion in grants of up to 50% of the cost of over 200 projects on nearly 3,000 sites throughout the United Kingdom. Schemes ranged in size from such things as the Eden Project in Cornwall and the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff to small, community-based developments such as village halls and local parks. Arrangement: Hardware: The client hardware was Dell Optiplex; the server hardware was Dell Power Edge. Operating System: Client: Dell Optiplex running MS Windows 2000 Professional. Server: Dell Power Edge running MS Windows 2000. The system comprised four modules: The Client module containing the operating system design. The Server module containing data files. The Reporter module used to run reports and queries. The Reporter_Server containing reports and queries available to users. Application Software: Microsoft Access 2003 User Interface: Each user of the system had a local copy of Client (and where appropriate a local copy of Reporter). Users' profiles defined which of the three sections they could access. Logical structure and schema: PROFESA was a relational database system. The core data was held in the table MAIN which contained a single record format for all record types. Any parent type could generate child records. Parent and child records were contained in the same table, differentiated by the field MAINid. 47 secondary data tables, supported by 14 link files, comprised the remaining structure. How data was originally captured and validated: Data was originally entered and updated by Millennium Commission staff. Each user of the system was assigned a profile which determined which of the three sections of the system they could access (Awards, Festivals or Projects), and whether their access was read-only or update. All facilities were accessed through a single main switchboard screen. Further details on data management are available in the PROFESA User Manuals, which can be found by way of the dataset documentation catalogue. The Grants Database was dynamic, in the sense that updated information about grants could be entered on the system via the regular updates received by the Millennium Commission from the Award Partners, thereby overwriting data previously received.
Principally registers, 1667-c1777 (with some indexes, 1698-1754) and note books, 1682-1774, giving particulars of clandestine marriages and baptisms performed in the Fleet Prison, at the May Fair Chapel, at King's Bench Prison or within the Mint, as well as entries in the Fleet registers of other ceremonies performed at these places. This series records the marriages of a significant proportion of the population of London and surrounding areas up to 1754. The 'Report of the Commission into Marriage Law' of 1868 estimated that countrywide in the first half of the eighteenth century, a third of all marriages were actually clandestine. Of these, the Fleet registers in this series are the most significant source, containing an estimated 400,000 entries representing over 200,000 weddings. Most of the registers include the full names of the couples, their marital status, their residences (generally parishes), usually the groom's occupation, and the minister's name or initials. Some registers, however, only give Christian names. For sailors, the name of the ship is sometimes given. Some of the registers include other non-marriage related matters, whilst some may be found to contain directions to the local marriage house. The notebooks often contain information and comments which are additional to that included in the registers, and in some cases the registers may not have survived at all. Some of the notebooks were general purpose books, and include other non-marriage related details. Electronic images of these records can be searched online through our partner website. Administrative history: In the 1740s, over half of all London weddings were held at the Fleet (over 6500 per year) with a further thousand conducted at the May Fair Chapel. By the late 17th century, provided that a couple exchanged vows and had some proof of this, then a marriage would be considered valid. Marriages by a form of ceremony conducted by an ordained clergyman, but without banns or licence, and generally not in a church or chapel, usually away from the parish of the bride or groom were termed clandestine marriages. The main appeal of clandestine marriages was seemingly for reasons of cost. Other reasons for their popularity included the avoidance of the need to obtain parental consent, and also to conceal embarrassing pregnancies. Clandestine marriages began to grow in numbers from the middle of the seventeenth century. The authorities attempted to quell this growth by introducing three parliamentary acts between 1694 and 1696 which collectively regulated marriages, introduced marriage taxes and censured and suspended clergy found to be involved. These, however, only applied to marriage centres which came under the jurisdiction (or visitation) of the bishop of the diocese. These acts inadvertently gave a near monopoly to private marriage centres outside the bishop's visitation (e.g. prisons) and to clergymen (many of whom were prisoners) who had been dismissed or were in debt and who had nothing to lose by conducting clandestine, fee-paying marriages. In 1711, Parliament passed legislation which included an attempt to deal with the problem of such clandestine marriages being conducted in prisons. A clause was included in the act to counter the loss of revenue (from non-payment of stamp duties) caused by clandestine marriages. The clause continued the imposition of fines for any person in 'holy orders' conducting a marriage but also introduced the same fine for any prison keeper who permitted such a marriage at his prison. While this prevented the marriages being performed inside the prisons, it did not prevent them being conducted in other locations in the vicinity of the prisons: e.g. the Liberties (or Rules) of the Fleet, or the Mint (for King's Bench Prison). On 25 March 1754, all clandestine marriages were made illegal by Lord Hardwicke's Marriage Act; although couples were still able to travel to other areas of the United Kingdom where the act did not apply: i.e. across the border into Scotland (e.g. Gretna Green), or to the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. Fleet Prison was primarily a debtors prison and stood on the east bank of the Fleet River in what is now Farringdon Street, London. The marriages performed at the Fleet involved all classes from London and the surrounding counties, but mainly catered for artisans, farmers, labourers and craftsmen from the poorer parishes of London, soldiers (including Chelsea Pensioners), and particularly sailors. King's Bench Prison was located on the east side of Borough High Street in Southwark. As with the Fleet, the majority of prisoners were debtors. Relatively few marriages were performed in the Prison itself, and by the 1740s, those marriages which had been performed in the Mint began to be held at the Fleet. The King's Bench and the Mint, because of their location, tended to attract a high proportion of couples from Kent and Surrey. From the late 1720s, clandestine marriages commenced at May Fair, which eventually became only second to the Fleet in terms of notoriety for such marriages. Initially, May Fair marriages were performed at St George's Chapel, Curzon Street, Mayfair, near Hyde Park Corner then, from 1744, at a private dwelling house (the 'New' or 'Little Chapel') situated ten yards away from St George's Chapel. Whereas clandestine marriages performed at the Fleet and King's Bench prisons and surrounding areas tended to attract the working classes, the May Fair Chapel was used by professional classes and the aristocracy for marriages, including the Dukes of Cleveland and Hamilton, Lord Stanley, and Lord George Bentinck. The need for a public record of the marriages meant that they were recorded in registers and some were produced as evidence in court cases. The registers of the Fleet were kept, for the most part, by the ministers (or their clerks) who performed the ceremonies, by self-appointed register-keepers, by the landlords of some of the houses where the ceremonies took place, and by persons who appear to have set up record offices at a later date and made copies of registers in the possession of others. It must be emphasised that the information in the Fleet documents (particularly those before 1714) should be treated with extreme caution as dates given are unreliable and names or indeed whole entries may be fictitious. Arrangement: The registers are listed in chronological order. Physically, they are now bound in volumes. For many pieces there are several registers bound together in one binding, and it should be noted that the physical distinction between the original registers inside these bindings is not always clearly defined. Within the registers, most of the entries are arranged chronologically, although a number are arranged alphabetically by first letter of groom's surname with the entries for each letter then arranged in chronological order. It is common in the registers for entries to be written on the inside covers, and also, confusingly, for them to run in reverse-order through the volumes, on backs of pages. Some registers contain integral indexes. The indexes refer to some of the registers but not to any of the notebooks. Like the registers, they are also arranged in chronological order, with the internal indexing based upon the first letter of the male surname. The name of the bride also sometimes shown. The bulk of the notebooks are arranged in alphabetical order of the name of the compiler of the notebooks (usually the minister) with the notebooks then arranged chronologically underneath the compiler's name. These are then followed by two sequences of unidentified notebooks and conclude with a series of miscellaneous notebooks. As with the registers, there was a common practice for details to be entered on the inside covers.
